J Clin Invest. 2018 Aug 23. pii: 121476. doi: 10.1172/JCI121476. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Endogenous retroviral signatures predict immunotherapy response in clear cellrenal cell carcinoma.
Smith CC(1)(2), Beckermann KE(3), Bortone DS(2)(4), De Cubas AA(3), Bixby LM(2),Lee SJ(1)(2), Panda A(5), Ganesan S(5), Bhanot G(5), Wallen EM(2)(6), MilowskyMI(2)(7), Kim WY(2)(6)(7)(8), Rathmell WK(3), Swanstrom R(2)(9), ParkerJS(2)(4)(8), Serody JS(1)(2)(7), Selitsky SR(2)(4), Vincent BG(1)(2)(7)(10).
Author information:(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, UNC School of Medicine, ChapelHill, North Carolina, USA.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,Nashville, Tennessee, USA.(4)Lineberger Bioinformatics Group, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(5)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA; andDepartment of Physics, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey, USA.(6)Department of Urology.(7)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine.(8)Department of Genetics.(9)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, and.(10)Curriculum in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, UNC School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
Human endogenous retroviruses (hERVs) are remnants of exogenous retroviruses thathave integrated into the genome throughout evolution. We developed acomputational workflow, hervQuant, which identified more than 3,000transcriptionally active hERVs within The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pan-cancerRNA-Seq database. hERV expression was associated with clinical prognosis inseveral tumor types, most significantly clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC).We explored two mechanisms by which hERV expression may influence the tumorimmune microenvironment in ccRCC: (i) RIG-I-like signaling and (ii) retroviralantigen activation of adaptive immunity. We demonstrated the ability of hERVsignatures associated with these immune mechanisms to predict patient survival inccRCC, independent of clinical staging and molecular subtyping. We identifiedpotential tumor-specific hERV epitopes with evidence of translational activitythrough the use of a ccRCC ribosome profiling (Ribo-Seq) dataset, validated theirability to bind HLA in vitro, and identified the presence of MHCtetramer-positive T cells against predicted epitopes. hERV sequences identifiedthrough this screening approach were significantly more highly expressed in ccRCCtumors responsive to treatment with programmed death receptor 1 (PD-1)inhibition. hervQuant provides insights into the role of hERVs within the tumorimmune microenvironment, as well as evidence that hERV expression could serve asa biomarker for patient prognosis and response to immunotherapy.
