ACS Cent Sci. 2018 Jul 25;4(7):868-879. doi: 10.1021/acscentsci.8b00239. Epub2018 Jul 12.
Gut Microbial β-Glucuronidase Inhibition via Catalytic Cycle Interception.
Pellock SJ(1), Creekmore BC(1), Walton WG(1), Mehta N(1), Biernat KA(1), CesmatAP(1), Ariyarathna Y(1), Dunn ZD(1), Li B(1), Jin J(2), James LI(1), RedinboMR(1)(1).
Author information:(1)Department of Chemistry, Center for Integrated Chemical Biology and DrugDiscovery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, and Integrated Program for Biological andGenome Sciences, and Departments of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, United States.(2)Department of Pharmacological Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mt. Sinai,New York, New York 10029, United States.
Microbial β-glucuronidases (GUSs) cause severe gut toxicities that limit theefficacy of cancer drugs and other therapeutics. Selective inhibitors ofbacterial GUS have been shown to alleviate these side effects. Using structuraland chemical biology, mass spectrometry, and cell-based assays, we establish thatpiperazine-containing GUS inhibitors intercept the glycosyl-enzyme catalyticintermediate of these retaining glycosyl hydrolases. We demonstrate thatpiperazine-based compounds are substrate-dependent GUS inhibitors that bind tothe GUS-GlcA catalytic intermediate as a piperazine-linked glucuronide (GlcA,glucuronic acid). We confirm the GUS-dependent formation of inhibitor-glucuronideconjugates by LC-MS and show that methylated piperazine analogs displaysignificantly reduced potencies. We further demonstrate that a range of approvedpiperazine- and piperidine-containing drugs from many classes, including thosefor the treatment of depression, infection, and cancer, function by the samemechanism, and we confirm through gene editing that these compounds selectivelyinhibit GUS in living bacterial cells. Together, these data reveal a uniquemechanism of GUS inhibition and show that a range of therapeutics may impact GUSactivities in the human gut.
