Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2018 Nov;15(11):683-698. doi:10.1038/s41575-018-0053-2.
Energy balance and gastrointestinal cancer: risk, interventions, outcomes andmechanisms.
Ulrich CM(1)(2), Himbert C(3)(4), Holowatyj AN(3)(4), Hursting SD(5)(6).
Author information:(1)Huntsman Cancer Institute, Salt Lake City, UT, USA. neli.ulrich@hci.utah.edu.(2)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City,UT, USA. neli.ulrich@hci.utah.edu.(3)Huntsman Cancer Institute, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.(4)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City,UT, USA.(5)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(6)UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
Obesity increases the risk of multiple gastrointestinal cancers and worsensdisease outcomes. Conversely, strong inverse associations have emerged betweenphysical activity and colon cancer and possibly other gastrointestinalmalignancies. The effect of weight loss interventions - such as modifications ofdiet and/or physical activity or bariatric surgery - remains unclear in patientswho are obese and have gastrointestinal cancer, although large clinical trialsare underway. Human intervention studies have already shed light on potentialmechanisms underlying the energy balance-cancer relationship, with preclinicalmodels supporting emerging pathway effects. Central to interventions that reduceobesity or increase physical activity are pluripotent cancer-preventive effects(including reduced systemic and adipose tissue inflammation and angiogenesis,altered adipokine levels and improved insulin resistance) that directly interfacewith the hallmarks of cancer. Other mechanisms, such as DNA repair, oxidativestress and telomere length, immune function, effects on cancer stem cells and themicrobiome, could also contribute to energy balance effects on gastrointestinalcancers. Although some mechanisms are well understood (for instance, systemiceffects on inflammation and insulin signalling), other areas remain unclear. Thecurrent state of knowledge supports the need to better integrate mechanisticapproaches with preclinical and human studies to develop effective, personalizeddiet and exercise interventions to reduce the burden of obesity ongastrointestinal cancer.
