Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2018 Aug 28. pii: S0002-9378(18)30711-7. doi:10.1016/j.ajog.2018.08.032. [Epub ahead of print]
Cost-effectiveness of opportunistic salpingectomy vs tubal ligation at the timeof cesarean delivery.
Venkatesh KK(1), Clark LH(2), Stamilio DM(3).
Author information:(1)Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC. Electronic address:Kartik.venkatesh@unchealth.unc.edu.(2)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, Chapel Hill, NC.(3)Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.
BACKGROUND: Removal of the fallopian tubes at the time of hysterectomy orinterval sterilization has become routine practice to prevent ovarian cancer.While emerging as a strategy, uptake of this procedure at the time of cesareandelivery for pregnant women seeking permanent sterilization has not been widelyadopted due to perceptions of increased morbidity and operative difficulty with alack of available data in this setting.OBJECTIVE: We sought to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis comparingstrategies for long-term sterilization and ovarian cancer risk reduction at thetime of cesarean delivery, including bilateral tubal ligation, opportunisticsalpingectomy, and long-acting reversible contraception.STUDY DESIGN: A decision-analytic and cost-effectiveness model was constructedfor pregnant women undergoing cesarean delivery who desired permanentsterilization in the US population, comparing 3 strategies: (1) bilateral tuballigation, (2) bilateral opportunistic salpingectomy, and (3) postpartumlong-acting reversible contraception. This theoretic cohort consisted of 110,000pregnant women desiring permanent sterilization at the time of cesarean deliveryand ovarian cancer prevention at an average of 35 years who were monitored for anadditional 40 years based on an average US female life expectancy of 75 years.The primary outcome measure was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.Effectiveness was measured as quality-adjusted life years. Secondary outcomesincluded: the number of ovarian cancer cases and deaths, procedure-relatedcomplications, and unintended and ectopic pregnancies. The 1-, 2-, and 3-way andMonte Carlo probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed. Thewillingness-to-pay threshold was set at $100,000.RESULTS: Both bilateral tubal ligation and bilateral opportunistic salpingectomywith cesarean delivery have favorable cost-effectiveness ratios. In the base caseanalysis, salpingectomy was more cost-effective with an incrementalcost-effectiveness ratio of $23,189 per quality-adjusted life year compared totubal ligation. Long-acting reversible contraception after cesarean was notcost-effective (ie, dominated). Although salpingectomy and tubal ligation wereboth cost-effective over a wide range of cost and risk estimates, the incrementalcost-effectiveness ratio analysis was highly sensitive to the uncertainty aroundthe estimates of salpingectomy cancer risk reduction, risk of perioperativecomplications, and cost. Monte Carlo probabilistic sensitivity analysis estimatedthat tubal ligation had a 49% chance of being the preferred strategy oversalpingectomy. If the true salpingectomy risk of perioperative complications is>2% higher than tubal ligation or if the cancer risk reduction of salpingectomyis <52%, then tubal ligation is the preferred, more cost-effective strategy.CONCLUSION: Bilateral tubal ligation and bilateral opportunistic salpingectomywith cesarean delivery are both cost-effective strategies for permanentsterilization and ovarian cancer risk reduction. Although salpingectomy and tuballigation are both reasonable strategies for cesarean patients seeking permanentsterilization and cancer risk reduction, threshold analyses indicate that therisks and benefits of salpingectomy with cesarean delivery need to be betterdefined before a preferred strategy can be determined.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.
