J Low Genit Tract Dis. 2018 Oct;22(4):302-310. doi: 10.1097/LGT.0000000000000430.
Preference for Human Papillomavirus Self-Collection and Papanicolaou: Survey ofUnderscreened Women in North Carolina.
Kilfoyle KA(1), Des Marais AC(2), Ngo MA(3), Romocki L(4), Richman AR(5), BarclayL(6), Brewer NT(7)(8), Rahangdale L(8)(9), Smith JS(2)(8).
Author information:(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Cambridge Health Alliance, Cambridge,MA.(2)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(3)Department of Biostatistics, Synteract, Inc., Morrisville, NC.(4)North Carolina Central University, Durham, NC.(5)East Carolina University, Greensville, NC.(6)American Sexual Health Association, Research Triangle Park, NC.(7)Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(8)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC.(9)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of North Carolina School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, NC.
OBJECTIVES: Self-collection of samples for human papillomavirus (HPV) testing(self-collection) has the potential to increase cervical cancer screening amongunderscreened women. We assessed attitudes toward at-home HPV self-collectioncompared with clinic-based Pap testing in this higher-risk population.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Participants were low-income women in North Carolinaoverdue for cervical cancer screening. Women self-collected samples at home,returned samples by mail for HPV testing, and completed phone questionnairesabout at-home HPV self-collection. Participants were referred to clinic-based Paptesting and invited to complete a second questionnaire about Pap testing. Across-sectional questionnaire compared attitudes, experiences, and preferencesfor self-collection versus Pap testing and assessed predictors of preference forHPV self-collection.RESULTS: Half (51%) of 221 women reported a preference for HPV self-collection,19% preferred Pap testing, and 27% reported no preference. More women reporteddifficulty finding time to do the Pap test (31%) than the self-test (13%, p =.003) and being afraid of the self-test results (50%) than the Pap test results(36%, p = .02). There were relatively fewer reports of physical discomfort andpain from self-collection than Pap testing (discomfort: 18% self; 48% Pap; pain:8% self; 30% Pap, p = .001). No differences were found in positive versusnegative thoughts about the tests, trust in the tests' safety and accuracy, orwillingness to do tests again.CONCLUSIONS: Overall positive attitudes toward HPV self-collection compared withPap testing among underscreened women suggest that self-collection is a promisingoption to increase cervical cancer screening in this high-risk population.
