Transl Behav Med. 2018 Aug 1. doi: 10.1093/tbm/iby063. [Epub ahead of print]
Implementing a small media intervention to increase colorectal cancer screeningin primary care clinics.
Melvin CL(1), Vines AI(2), Deal AM(3), Pierce HO(1), Carpenter WR(4), GodleyPA(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Medical University of South Carolina.(2)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill (UNC).(3)Biostatistics Shared Resource, UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center.(4)UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center.(5)Division of Hematology and Oncology, School of Medicine, UNC.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common cancers in the USA. In 2017, anestimated 135,420 people were diagnosed with CRC and 50,260 people died from CRC.Several screening modalities are recommended by the United States PreventiveServices Task Force (USPSTF), including annual stool tests that are usuallycompleted at home and under-used compared with colonoscopy despite stated patientpreferences for an alternative to colonoscopy. The Community Preventive ServicesTask Force recommends use of small media interventions (SMIs) to increase CRCscreening and calls for a greater understanding of its independent impact onscreening participation. This study tested whether a SMI increased the likelihoodof participant return of a USPSTF recommended Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT). Intotal, 804 individuals participated in a two-group, prospective randomizedcontrolled trial. Descriptive statistics with chi-square tests compareddifferences in participant characteristics and return rates. Multivariablelog-binomial modeling estimated combined effects of patient characteristics withFIT return rates. No differences in return rates were observed overall or byparticipant characteristics other than the year of enrollment. A multivariablemodel controlling for all covariates, found gender, insurance type, and regularplace for healthcare to be significantly associated with return rates. Receipt ofthe SMI did not independently increase overall return rates but it may haveimproved the ease of completing the FIT by some participants, particularly women,those with insurance, and those with a regular place for healthcare.
