Australas Phys Eng Sci Med. 2018 Aug 24. doi: 10.1007/s13246-018-0677-0. [Epubahead of print]
Use of lung treatment plans to evaluate DIR algorithms.
Jurkovic IA(1), Stathakis S(1), Li Y(1), Patel A(1), Vincent J(1), PapanikolaouN(1), Mavroidis P(2)(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Health Sciences Centerat San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Health Sciences Centerat San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA. panayiotis_mavroidis@med.unc.edu.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,NC, USA. panayiotis_mavroidis@med.unc.edu.
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the accuracy of two deformable imageregistration algorithms by examining their influence on the dose summationresults obtained using 4DCT (four dimensional computed tomography) dosedistributions based on '4D' planned and '4D optimal' IMRT (intensity modulatedradiation therapy) plans. For ten lung cancer patients, 4D step and shoot IMRTplans were produced. The breathing cycle was divided into ten parts and for eachpart a set of CT images was acquired. For each patient the treatment plan wascopied to the CTs of each phase and subsequently recalculated. Each phase CT wasthen registered to the average intensity projection (AIP) CT using a deformableimage registration (DIR) algorithm and the composite dose distribution was thencalculated by summing up the deformed dose distributions from all the phases('4D' treatment plan). The '4D optimal' treatment plan was created by producingan optimal plan on the CTs of each phase of the respiratory cycle and summing upthe deformed dose distributions from all the phases. The results indicate that itis possible to map the dose distributions of different breathing phases in lungusing DIR, and that different DIR methods and target characteristics (motionamplitude, size, location) affect the differences between original plan, '4D' and'4D optimal' dose distributions. Although the '4D optimal' plans were designed toachieve 95% target coverage, both of the used DIR methods failed to translatethat coverage in some instances. The same variation between these methods wasalso observed in the '4D' plan comparison. This study shows that it is feasibleto perform an acceptably accurate calculation of the composite deformed dose.However, it is important to account for tumor motion and body deformationespecially when the tumor volume is small and/or located in the lower lobe of thelung.
