JCI Insight. 2018 Aug 9;3(15). pii: 120941. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.120941.[Epub ahead of print]
Requirement for MUC5AC in KRAS-dependent lung carcinogenesis.
Bauer AK(1), Umer M(2), Richardson VL(3), Cumpian AM(2), Harder AQ(3), KhosraviN(2), Azzegagh Z(2), Hara NM(3), Ehre C(4), Mohebnasab M(2), Caetano MS(2),Merrick DT(5), van Bokhoven A(5), Wistuba II(6), Kadara H(7)(8), Dickey BF(2),Velmurugan K(1), Mann PR(5), Lu X(9), Barón AE(9), Evans CM(3), MoghaddamSJ(2)(10).
Author information:(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, Colorado School of PublicHealth, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado, USA.(2)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, Texas, USA.(3)Division of Pulmonary Sciences and Critical Care Medicine, University ofColorado, Aurora, Colorado, USA.(4)Marsico Lung Institute/CF Center, Department of Pediatrics, University ofNorth Carolina - Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(5)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado, USA.(6)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MDAnderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(7)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Medicine,American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.(8)Department of Epidemiology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, Texas, USA.(9)Department of Biostatistics and Informatics, Colorado School of Public Health,University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado, USA.(10)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center UTHealth Graduate School ofBiomedical Sciences, Houston, Texas, USA.
With more than 150,000 deaths per year in the US alone, lung cancer has thehighest number of deaths for any cancer. These poor outcomes reflect a lack oftreatment for the most common form of lung cancer, non-small cell lung carcinoma(NSCLC). Lung adenocarcinoma (ADC) is the most prevalent subtype of NSCLC, withthe main oncogenic drivers being KRAS and epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR). Whereas EGFR blockade has led to some success in lung ADC, effective KRASinhibition is lacking. KRAS-mutant ADCs are characterized by high levels ofgel-forming mucin expression, with the highest mucin levels corresponding toworse prognoses. Despite these well-recognized associations, little is knownabout roles for individual gel-forming mucins in ADC development causatively. Wehypothesized that MUC5AC/Muc5ac, a mucin gene known to be commonly expressed inNSCLC, is crucial in KRAS/Kras-driven lung ADC. We found that MUC5AC was asignificant determinant of poor prognosis, especially in patients withKRAS-mutant tumors. In addition, by using mice with lung ADC induced chemicallywith urethane or transgenically by mutant-Kras expression, we observedsignificantly reduced tumor development in animals lacking Muc5ac compared withcontrols. Collectively, these results provide strong support for MUC5AC as apotential therapeutic target for lung ADC, a disease with few effectivetreatments.
