Mol Cancer Ther. 2018 Aug 9. pii: molcanther.1239.2017. doi:10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-17-1239. [Epub ahead of print]
MERTK mediates intrinsic and adaptive resistance to AXL-targeting agents.
McDaniel NK(1), Cummings CT(2), Iida M(1), Hulse J(3), Pearson HE(1), VasileiadiE(4), Parker RE(5), Orbuch RA(1), Ondracek OJ(1), Welke NB(1), Kang GH(1), DaviesKD(2), Wang X(6), Frye SV(6), Earp HS(7), Harari PM(8), Kimple RJ(1), DeRyckereD(3), Graham DK(9), Wheeler DL(10).
Author information:(1)Department of Human Oncology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine.(2)Pediatrics, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus.(3)Pediatrics, Emory University.(4)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University.(5)Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine.(6)Center for Integrative Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill.(7)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill.(8)Human Oncology, University of Wisconsin-Madison.(9)Pediatrics, Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center at Children's Healthcareof Atlanta/Emory University.(10)Department of Human Oncology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicinedlwheeler@wisc.edu.
The TAM (TYRO-3, AXL, MERTK) family receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) play animportant role in promoting growth, survival, and metastatic spread of severaltumor types. AXL and MERTK are overexpressed in head and neck squamous cellcarcinoma (HNSCC), triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), and non-small cell lungcancer (NSCLC), malignancies that are highly metastatic and lethal. AXL is themost well-characterized TAM receptor and mediates resistance to both conventionaland targeted cancer therapies. Since AXL is highly expressed in aggressive tumortypes, cancer patients are currently being enrolled in clinical trials testingAXL inhibitors. In the current study, we analyzed the effects of AXL inhibitionusing a small molecule AXL inhibitor, monoclonal antibody therapy, and siRNA inHNSCC, TNBC, and NSCLC preclinical models. Anti-AXL targeting strategies hadlimited efficacy across these different models which our data suggests could beattributed to upregulation of MERTK. MERTK expression was increased in cell linesand patient-derived xenografts treated with AXL inhibitors and inhibition ofMERTK sensitized HNSCC, TNBC, and NSCLC preclinical models to AXL inhibition.Dual targeting of AXL and MERTK led to a more potent blockade of downstreamsignaling, synergistic inhibition of tumor cell expansion in culture, and reducedtumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, ectopic overexpression of MERTK in AXLinhibitor-sensitive models resulted in resistance to AXL-targeting strategies.These observations suggest that therapeutic strategies co-targeting both AXL andMERTK could be highly beneficial in a variety of tumor types where both receptorsare expressed, leading to improved survival for patients with lethalmalignancies.
Copyright ©2018, American Association for Cancer Research.
