

12. Breast Cancer Res. 2018 Oct 22;20(1):126. doi: 10.1186/s13058-018-1054-3.

Tumor-derived granulocyte colony-stimulating factor diminishes efficacy of breast
tumor cell vaccines.

Ravindranathan S(1), Nguyen KG(2)(3), Kurtz SL(1), Frazier HN(4), Smith SG(1)(5),
Koppolu BP(1)(5), Rajaram N(1), Zaharoff DA(6)(7)(8)(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville,
AR, USA.
(2)Cell and Molecular Biology Program, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, 
USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(4)Honors College, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA.
(5)Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, NC and North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville,
AR, USA. dazaharo@ncsu.edu.
(7)Cell and Molecular Biology Program, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, 
USA. dazaharo@ncsu.edu.
(8)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. dazaharo@ncsu.edu.
(9)Honors College, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA.
dazaharo@ncsu.edu.
(10)Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, NC and North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA.
dazaharo@ncsu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Although metastasis is ultimately responsible for about 90% of breast
cancer mortality, the vast majority of breast-cancer-related deaths are due to
progressive recurrences from non-metastatic disease. Current adjuvant therapies
are unable to prevent progressive recurrences for a significant fraction of
patients with breast cancer. Autologous tumor cell vaccines (ATCVs) are a safe
and potentially useful strategy to prevent breast cancer recurrence, in a
personalized and patient-specific manner, following standard-of-care tumor
resection. Given the high intra-patient and inter-patient heterogeneity in breast
cancer, it is important to understand which factors influence the immunogenicity 
of breast tumor cells in order to maximize ATCV effectiveness.
METHODS: The relative immunogenicity of two murine breast carcinomas, 4T1 and
EMT6, were compared in a prophylactic vaccination-tumor challenge model.
Differences in cell surface expression of antigen-presentation-related and
costimulatory molecules were compared along with immunosuppressive cytokine
production. CRISPR/Cas9 technology was used to modulate tumor-derived cytokine
secretion. The impacts of cytokine deletion on splenomegaly, myeloid-derived
suppressor cell (MDSC) accumulation and ATCV immunogenicity were assessed.
RESULTS: Mice vaccinated with an EMT6 vaccine exhibited significantly greater
protective immunity than mice vaccinated with a 4T1 vaccine. Hybrid vaccination
studies revealed that the 4T1 vaccination induced both local and systemic immune 
impairments. Although there were significant differences between EMT6 and 4T1 in 
the expression of costimulatory molecules, major disparities in the secretion of 
immunosuppressive cytokines likely accounts for differences in immunogenicity
between the cell lines. Ablation of one cytokine in particular,
granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), reversed MDSC accumulation and
splenomegaly in the 4T1 model. Furthermore, G-CSF inhibition enhanced the
immunogenicity of a 4T1-based vaccine to the extent that all vaccinated mice
developed complete protective immunity.
CONCLUSIONS: Breast cancer cells that express high levels of G-CSF have the
potential to diminish or abrogate the efficacy of breast cancer ATCVs.
Fortunately, this study demonstrates that genetic ablation of immunosuppressive
cytokines, such as G-CSF, can enhance the immunogenicity of breast cancer
cell-based vaccines. Strategies that combine inhibition of immunosuppressive
factors with immune stimulatory co-formulations already under development may
help ATCVs reach their full potential.

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-018-1054-3 
PMID: 30348199 
