Oral Oncol. 2018 Sep;84:46-51. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2018.06.028. Epub 2018Jul 19.
Induction chemotherapy with carboplatin, nab-paclitaxel and cetuximab for atleast N2b nodal status or surgically unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of thehead and neck.
Weiss J(1), Gilbert J(2), Deal AM(3), Weissler M(4), Hilliard C(5), Chera B(6),Murphy B(7), Hackman T(8), Liao JJ(9), Grilley Olson J(10), Hayes DN(11).
Author information:(1)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, UnitedStates. Electronic address: Jared_Weiss@med.unc.edu.(2)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, United States. Electronic address:jill.gilbert@vanderbilt.edu.(3)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, UnitedStates. Electronic address: allison_deal@med.unc.edu.(4)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, UnitedStates. Electronic address: mark_weissler@med.unc.edu.(5)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, UnitedStates. Electronic address: chris_hilliard@med.unc.edu.(6)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, UnitedStates. Electronic address: bchera@med.unc.edu.(7)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, United States. Electronic address:barbara.murphy@vanderbilt.edu.(8)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, UnitedStates. Electronic address: trevor_hackman@med.unc.edu.(9)University of Washington/Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, United States.Electronic address: ayliao@uw.edu.(10)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, UnitedStates. Electronic address: juneko_grilley-olson@med.unc.edu.(11)West Cancer Center at the University of Tennessee, United States. Electronicaddress: neil.hayes@uthsc.edu.
BACKGROUND: Although induction studies of TPF in SCCHN have not improved outcomescompared to chemoradiotherapy alone, phase II studies of weekly carboplatin(CbP), paclitaxel and cetuximab (C225) have shown promising results.Nano-albumin-paclitaxel (nab-paclitaxel) based chemotherapy has demonstrated ahigher response rate (RR) than solvent-based paclitaxel in squamous cellcarcinoma of the lung with favorable toxicity.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with treatment naïve SCCHN of any site with ≥N2bdisease or that was unresectable by strict criteria were eligible. Patients weretreated with nab-paclitaxel 100 mg/m2, CbP area under the curve (AUC) 2 and C225400 mg/m2 week 1 then 250 mg/m2 for six weeks, followed by standard of carechemoradiotherapy (CRT). The primary endpoint was clinical response rate toinduction therapy as defined by RECIST version 1.1. Secondary measures includedtoxicity, progression-free survival, overall survival and quality of life asmeasured by FACT-HN.RESULTS: 38 eligible subjects were treated. Primary sites were: oropharynx (OPX)(25), larynx (3) oral cavity (OC) (9), hypopharynx (1). The most common grade 3or 4 toxicity during induction was acneiform rash (26%) followed by neutropenia(16%). RR was 76.3%. Median PFS and OS have not been reached (median follow-up of3.3 years); they were superior in patients with response.CONCLUSIONS: The combination of nab-paclitaxel, CbP and C225 is feasible,tolerable and active against locally advanced SCCHN.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
