Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competingfinancial interest(s): The authors of this publication have equity ownership(M.R.R.) or are inventors of technologies (S.J.P., J.J., L.I.J., and M.R.R.)related to Symberix, Inc., a pharmaceutical company creating microbiome-targetedtherapeutics. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and doesnot necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes ofHealth.
Front Pharmacol. 2018 Jul 16;9:720. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00720. eCollection2018.
Greensporone C, a Freshwater Fungal Secondary Metabolite InducesMitochondrial-Mediated Apoptotic Cell Death in Leukemic Cell Lines.
Prabhu KS(1), Siveen KS(1), Kuttikrishnan S(1), Iskandarani AN(1), Khan AQ(1),Merhi M(2), Omri HE(2), Dermime S(2), El-Elimat T(3), Oberlies NH(4), AlaliFQ(5), Uddin S(1).
Author information:(1)Translational Research Institute, Academic Health System, Hamad MedicalCorporation, Doha, Qatar.(2)National Center for Cancer Care and Research, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha,Qatar.(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy,Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid, Jordan.(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of North Carolina atGreensboro, Greensboro, NC, United States.(5)College of Pharmacy, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.
Therapeutic agents used in the treatment of cancer are known to developresistance against cancer cells. Hence, there is a continuing need to investigatenovel agents for the treatment and management of cancer. Antitumor activity ofgreensporone C (GC), a new resorcylic acid lactone isolated from an organicextract of a culture of a Halenospora sp. freshwater fungus, was subjected forscreening against a panel of leukemic cell lines (K562, U937, and AR320). In allthe three cell lines, cell proliferation was inhibited in dose-dependent fashion.GC further arrested the cells in SubG0 phase in dose-dependent manner. AnnexinV/PI dual staining data confirmed apoptotic death of treated K562 and U937leukemic cells. Treatment with GC suppressed constitutively phosphorylated AKTand downregulated expression of inhibitor of apoptotic proteins XIAP, cIAP-1, andcIAP-2. In summation to this, GC-treated leukemic cells upregulated proteinexpression of pro-apoptotic proteins, Bax with concomitant decrease in expressionof anti-apoptotic proteins including Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL. Upregulation of Bax wasassociated with cytochrome c release which was confirmed from the collapse ofmitochondrial membrane. Released cytochrome c further activated caspase cascadewhich in turn initiated apoptosis process. Anticancer activity of this isolatedfungal compound GC was potentiated via stimulating production of reactive oxygenspecies (ROS) along with depletion of reduced glutathione (GSH) levels in K562and U937 leukemic cells. Pretreatment of these cells with N-acetyl cysteineprevented GC-induced depletion of reduced GSH level andmitochondrial-caspase-induced apoptosis. Altogether, our data show that GCmodulates the apoptotic response of human leukemic cells and raises thepossibility of its use as a novel therapeutic strategy for hematologicalmalignancies.
