Mol Cell Biol. 2018 Aug 20. pii: MCB.00644-17. doi: 10.1128/MCB.00644-17. [Epubahead of print]
p62-dependent phase separation of patient-derived KEAP1 mutations and NRF2.
Cloer EW(1)(2), Siesser PF(2), Cousins EM(2), Goldfarb D(3), Mowrey DD(4),Harrison JS(2)(4), Weir SJ(2), Dokholyan NV(5), Major MB(6)(2)(3)(7).
Author information:(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.(3)Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.(4)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.(5)Departments of Pharmacology and Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Penn StateMilton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, Pennsylvania, United States.(6)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.benmajor@med.unc.edu.(7)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Schoolof Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.
Cancer-derived loss-of-function mutations in the KEAP1 tumor suppressor genestabilize the NRF2 transcription factor, resulting in a pro-survival geneexpression program that alters cellular metabolism and neutralizes oxidativestress. In a recent genotype-phenotype study, we classified 40% of KEAP1mutations as ANCHOR mutants. By immunoprecipitation, these mutants bind more NRF2than wild-type KEAP1 and ubiquitylate NRF2, but are incapable of promoting NRF2degradation. BioID-based protein interaction studies confirmed increasedabundance of NRF2 within the KEAP1 ANCHOR mutant complexes with no otherstatistically significant changes to the complexes. Discrete molecular dynamicsimulation modeling and limited proteolysis suggest that the ANCHOR mutationsstabilize residues in KEAP1 that contact NRF2. The modeling supports anintramolecular salt bridge between the R470C ANCHOR mutation and E493; mutationof the E493 residue confirmed the model, resulting in the ANCHOR phenotype. Inlive cells, the KEAP1 R320Q and R470C ANCHOR mutants co-localize with NRF2,p62/SQSTM1, and polyubiquitin in structured spherical droplets that rapidly fuseand dissolve. Transmission electron microscopy coupled with confocal fluorescentimaging revealed membraneless phase-separated biomolecular condensates. Wepresent a model wherein ANCHOR mutations form p62-dependent biomolecularcondensates that may represent a transitional state between impaired proteasomaldegradation and autophagy.
Copyright © 2018 American Society for Microbiology.
