J Pain Symptom Manage. 2018 Aug 24. pii: S0885-3924(18)30441-X. doi:10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2018.08.011. [Epub ahead of print]
Effects of Shared Decision Making on Distress and Health Care Utilization AmongPatients With Lung Cancer: A Systematic Review.
Geerse OP(1), Stegmann ME(2), Kerstjens HAM(3), Hiltermann TJN(3), Bakitas M(4),Zimmermann C(5), Deal AM(6), Brandenbarg D(2), Berger MY(2), Berendsen AJ(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, University of Groningen, University MedicalCenter Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:o.p.geerse@umcg.nl.(2)Department of General Practice and Elderly Care Medicine, University ofGroningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(3)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, University of Groningen, University MedicalCenter Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(4)School of Nursing, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama,USA.(5)Department of Supportive Care, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre and Departmentof Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.(6)Department of Biostatistics and Clinical Data Management Core, University ofNorth Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
CONTEXT: Lung cancer is associated with significant distress, poor quality oflife, and a median prognosis of less than one year. Benefits of shared decisionmaking (SDM) have been described for multiple diseases, either by the use ofdecisions aids or as part of supportive care interventions.OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to summarize the effects ofinterventions facilitating SDM on distress and health care utilization amongpatients with lung cancer.METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search in the CINAHL, Cochrane,EMBASE, MEDLINE, and PsychINFO databases. Studies were eligible when conducted ina population of patients with lung cancer, evaluated the effects of anintervention that facilitated SDM, and measured distress and/or health careutilization as outcomes.RESULTS: A total of 12 studies, detailed in 13 publications, were included: ninerandomized trials and three retrospective cohort studies. All studies reported ona supportive care intervention facilitating SDM as part of their intervention.Eight studies described effects on distress, and eight studies measured effectson health care utilization. No effect was found in studies measuring genericdistress. Positive effects, in favor of the intervention groups, were observed instudies using anxiety-specific measures (n = 1) or depression-specific measures(n = 3). Evidence for reductions in health care utilization was found in fivestudies.CONCLUSION: Although not supported by all studies, our findings suggest thatfacilitating SDM in the context of lung cancer may lead to improved emotionaloutcomes and less aggressive therapies. Future studies, explicitly studying theeffects of SDM by using decision aids, are needed to better elucidate potentialbenefits.
Copyright © 2018 American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine. All rightsreserved.
