Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2018 Aug 24. doi: 10.1002/ijgo.12656. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Making HPV vaccination available to girls everywhere.
Oberlin AM(1)(2)(3), Rahangdale L(4), Chinula L(1)(5)(6), Fuseini NM(1)(7),Chibwesha CJ(1)(2)(3).
Author information:(1)Division of Global Women's Health, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(2)Right to Care, Helen Joseph Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa.(3)Clinical HIV Research Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, University of theWitwatersrand, Helen Joseph Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa.(4)Division of General Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Obstetrics andGynecology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)UNC Project-Malawi, Tidziwe Centre, Kamuzu Central Hospital, Lilongwe, Malawi.(6)College of Medicine, University of Malawi, Blantyre, Malawi.(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osborn Family Health Center, Our Ladyof Lourdes Medical Center, Camden, NJ, USA.
Cervical cancer is currently the fourth leading cause of cancer death among womenworldwide, with most cases occurring in low- and middle-income countries. Safe,highly effective vaccines against HPV have been on the market since 2006, yetonly 6% of girls worldwide have received this life-saving cancer preventionintervention. International organizations, including PATH, Gavi, and thepharmaceutical companies Merck and GlaxoSmithKline, have provided support toeligible low- and middle-income countries to implement national HPV vaccinationprograms. Still, glaring disparities in the availability of national HPVvaccination programs and the coverage of the primary target population betweenthe global north and south persist. We illustrate worldwide HPV vaccineimplementation and coverage using an online data visualization, which is publiclyavailable and can be used to gain unique insights. We also present three emergingsolutions to transform future HPV vaccine delivery in low- and middle-incomecountries: low-cost generics, single-dose vaccination, and co-administration withother adolescent vaccines. By rapidly expanding access to HPV vaccination togirls everywhere, vaccine-type HPV infections can be virtually eliminated. Athigh vaccination-coverage levels, more than 80%-or approximately 230 000-of thecervical cancer deaths that occur each year can be averted.
© 2018 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics.
