Lab Chip. 2018 Oct 19. doi: 10.1039/c8lc00716k. [Epub ahead of print]
Microfluidic-based solid phase extraction of cell free DNA.
Campos CDM(1), Gamage SST(1), Jackson JM(1), Witek MA(2), Park DS(3), MurphyMC(3), Godwin AK(4), Soper SA(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.ssoper@ku.edu and Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for PrecisionMedicine, USA.(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.ssoper@ku.edu and Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for PrecisionMedicine, USA and Department of Biomedical Engineering, The University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.(3)Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for Precision Medicine, USA andDepartment of Mechanical Engineering, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,LA, USA.(4)University of Kansas Cancer Center, University of Kansas Medical Center,Kansas City, KS, USA.(5)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.ssoper@ku.edu and Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for PrecisionMedicine, USA and University of Kansas Cancer Center, University of KansasMedical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA and BioEngineering Program, The Universityof Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66047, USA and Department of Mechanical Engineering, TheUniversity of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66047, USA and Ulsan National Institute ofScience and Technology, Ulsan, Republic of Korea.
Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is a liquid biopsy marker that can carry signatures (i.e.,mutations) associated with certain pathological conditions. Therefore, theextraction of cfDNA from a variety of clinical samples can be an effective andminimally invasive source of markers for disease detection and subsequentmanagement. In the oncological diseases, circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), a cfDNAsub-class, can carry clinically actionable mutations and coupled with nextgeneration sequencing or other mutation detection methods provide a venue foreffective in vitro diagnostics. However, cfDNA mutational analyses require highquality inputs. This necessitates extraction platforms that provide high recoveryover the entire ctDNA size range (50 → 150 bp) with minimal interferences (i.e.,co-extraction of genomic DNA), and high reproducibility with a simple workflow.Herein, we present a novel microfluidic solid-phase extraction device (μSPE)consisting of a plastic chip that is activated with UV/O3 to generatesurface-confined carboxylic acid functionalities for the μSPE of cfDNA. The μSPEuses an immobilization buffer (IB) consisting of polyethylene glycol and saltsthat induce cfDNA condensation onto the activated plastic microfluidic surface.The μSPE consists of an array of micropillars to increase extraction bed load(scalable to loads >700 ng of cfDNA) and can be produced at low-cost usingreplication-based techniques. The entire μSPE can be fabricated in a singlemolding step negating the need for adding additional extraction supports to thedevice simplifying production and keeping device and assay cost low. The μSPEallowed for recoveries >90% of model cfDNA fragments across a range of sizes(100-700 bp) and even the ability to extract efficiently short cfDNA fragments(50 bp, >70%). In addition, the composition of the IB allowed for reducing theinterference of co-extracted genomic DNA. We demonstrated the clinical utility ofthe μSPE by quantifying the levels of cfDNA in healthy donors and patients withnon-small-cell lung and colorectal cancers. μSPE extracted cfDNA from plasmasamples was also subjected to a ligase detection reaction (LDR) for determiningthe presence of mutations in the KRAS gene for colorectal and non-small cell lungcancer patients.
