JCI Insight. 2018 Aug 23;3(16). pii: 121522. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.121522.[Epub ahead of print]
Endogenous retrovirus expression is associated with response to immune checkpointblockade in clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
Panda A(1)(2), de Cubas AA(3), Stein M(1)(4), Riedlinger G(1), Kra J(1), MayerT(1), Smith CC(5), Vincent BG(5), Serody JS(5), Beckermann KE(3)(6), GanesanS(1)(4), Bhanot G(1)(2)(7), Rathmell WK(3)(6).
Author information:(1)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.(2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NewJersey, USA.(3)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.(4)Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.(5)Department of Medicine, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University ofNorth Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, VanderbiltUniversity Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.(7)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers University,Piscataway, New Jersey, USA.
Although a subset of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) patients respond toimmune checkpoint blockade (ICB), predictors of response remain uncertain. Weinvestigated whether abnormal expression of endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) intumors is associated with local immune checkpoint activation (ICA) and responseto ICB. Twenty potentially immunogenic ERVs (πERVs) were identified in ccRCC inThe Cancer Genome Atlas data set, and tumors were stratified into 3 groups basedon their expression levels. πERV-high ccRCC tumors showed increased immuneinfiltration, checkpoint pathway upregulation, and higher CD8+ T cell fraction ininfiltrating leukocytes compared with πERV-low ccRCC tumors. Similar results wereobserved in ER+/HER2- breast, colon, and head and neck squamous cell cancers. ERVexpression correlated with expression of genes associated with histonemethylation and chromatin regulation, and πERV-high ccRCC was enriched in BAP1mutant tumors. ERV3-2 expression correlated with ICA in 11 solid cancers,including the 4 named above. In a small retrospective cohort of 24 metastaticccRCC patients treated with single-agent PD-1/PD-L1 blockade, ERV3-2 expressionin tumors was significantly higher in responders compared with nonresponders.Thus, abnormal expression of πERVs is associated with ICA in several solidcancers, including ccRCC, and ERV3-2 expression is associated with response toICB in ccRCC.
