Mol Autism. 2018 Aug 17;9:45. doi: 10.1186/s13229-018-0228-2. eCollection 2018.
Characterization and structure-activity relationships ofindenoisoquinoline-derived topoisomerase I inhibitors in unsilencing the dormantUbe3a gene associated with Angelman syndrome.
Lee HM(1), Clark EP(1), Kuijer MB(1), Cushman M(2), Pommier Y(3), PhilpotBD(1)(4).
Author information:(1)1Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of North CarolinaSchool of Medicine, Neuroscience Research Building, Room 5119 115 Mason Farm Rd.,Campus Box 7545, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7545 USA.(2)2Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, PurdueUniversity School of Pharmacy and the Purdue Center for Cancer Research, WestLafayette, IN USA.(3)3Developmental Therapeutics Branch and Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology,Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD USA.(4)4UNC Neuroscience Center, Carolina Institute for Developmental Disabilities,University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC USA.
Background: Angelman syndrome (AS) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorderlacking effective therapies. AS is caused by mutations in ubiquitin proteinligase E3A (UBE3A), which is genomically imprinted such that only the maternallyinherited copy is expressed in neurons. We previously demonstrated thattopoisomerase I (Top1) inhibitors could successfully reactivate the dormantpaternal allele of Ube3a in neurons of a mouse model of AS. We also previouslyshowed that one such Top1 inhibitor, topotecan, could unsilence paternal UBE3A ininduced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons from individuals with AS. Althoughtopotecan has been well-studied and is FDA-approved for cancer therapy, itslimited CNS bioavailability will likely restrict the therapeutic use of topotecanin AS. The goal of this study was to identify additional Top1 inhibitors withsimilar efficacy as topotecan, with the expectation that these could be tested inthe future for safety and CNS bioavailability to assess their potential as AStherapeutics.Methods: We tested 13 indenoisoquinoline-derived Top1 inhibitors to identifycompounds that unsilence the paternal allele of Ube3a in mouse neurons. Primarycortical neurons were isolated from embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5) mice with aUbe3a-YFP fluorescent tag on the paternal allele (Ube3am+/pYFP mice) or mice thatlack the maternal Ube3a allele and hence model AS (Ube3am-/p+ mice). Neurons werecultured for 7 days, treated with drug for 72 h, and examined for paternal UBE3Aprotein expression by Western blot or fluorescence immunostaining. Dose responsesof the compounds were determined across a log range of drug treatments, andcytotoxicity was tested using a luciferase-based assay.Results: All 13 indenoisoquinoline-derived Top1 inhibitors unsilenced paternalUbe3a. Several compounds exhibited favorable paternal Ube3a unsilencingproperties, similar to topotecan, and of these, indotecan (LMP400) was the mosteffective based on estimated Emax (maximum response of unsilencing paternalUbe3a) and EC50 (half maximal effective concentration).Conclusions: We provide pharmacological profiles of indenoisoquinoline-derivedTop1 inhibitors as paternal Ube3a unsilencers. All 13 tested compounds wereeffective at unsilencing paternal Ube3a, although with variable efficacy andpotency. Indotecan (LMP400) demonstrated a better pharmacological profile ofUbe3a unsilencing compared to our previous lead compound, topotecan. Takentogether, indotecan and its structural analogues are potential AS therapeuticswhose translational potential in AS treatment should be further assessed.
