J Glob Oncol. 2018 Jul;(4):1-11. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00174.
Frequent HIV and Young Age Among Individuals With Diverse Cancers at a NationalTeaching Hospital in Malawi.
Horner MJ(1), Salima A(1), Chilima C(1), Mukatipa M(1), Kumwenda W(1), KampaniC(1), Chimzimu F(1), Mukunda B(1), Tomoka T(1), Mulenga M(1), Nyasosela R(1),Chasimpha S(1), Dzamalala C(1), Gopal S(1).
Author information:(1)Marie-Josèphe Horner and Satish Gopal, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC; Marie-Josèphe Horner, Ande Salima, Chrissie Chilima,Matthews Mukatipa, Wiza Kumwenda, Coxcilly Kampani, Fred Chimzimu, Bal Mukunda,Tamiwe Tomoka, Maurice Mulenga, Richard Nyasosela, and Satish Gopal, Universityof North Carolina Project-Malawi; Marie-Josèphe Horner, Ande Salima, ChrissieChilima, Matthews Mukatipa, Wiza Kumwenda, and Satish Gopal, Kamuzu CentralHospital Cancer Registry; Satish Gopal, Malawi Cancer Consortium & RegionalCenter of Research Excellence for Non-Communicable Diseases, Lilongwe; SteadyChasimpha and Charles Dzamalala, Malawi Cancer Registry; and Charles Dzamalalaand Satish Gopal, University of Malawi College of Medicine, Blantyre, Malawi.
Purpose Cancer surveillance provides a critical evidence base to guide cancercontrol efforts, yet population-based coverage in Africa is sparse.Hospital-based registries may help fill this need by providing localepidemiologic data to guide policy and forecast local health care needs. Wereport the epidemiology of patients with cancer recorded by a de novohospital-based cancer registry at Kamuzu Central Hospital, Malawi, the soleprovider of comprehensive oncology services for half the country and location ofa high-volume pathology laboratory. Methods We conducted active case findingacross all hospital departments and the pathology laboratory from June 2014 toMarch 2016. Patient demographics, tumor characteristics, treatment, and HIVstatus were collected. We describe epidemiology of the cancer caseload, registrydesign, and costs associated with registry operations. Results Among 1,446registered patients, Kaposi sarcoma and cervical cancer were the most commoncancers among men and women, respectively. Burkitt lymphoma was most commoncancer among children. The current rate of pathology confirmation is 65%, a vastimprovement in the diagnostic capacity for cancer through the hospital'spathology laboratory. Among leading cancer types, an alarming proportion occurredat young ages; 50% of Kaposi sarcoma and 25% of esophageal, breast, and cervicalcancers were diagnosed among those younger than 40 years of age. A systematic,cross-sectional assessment of HIV status reveals a prevalence of 58% among adultsand 18% among children. Conclusion We report a high caseload among typicallyyoung patients and a significant burden of HIV infection among patients withcancer. In low- and middle-income countries with intermittent, sparse, ornonexistent cancer surveillance, hospital-based cancer registries can provideimportant local epidemiologic data while efforts to expand population-basedregistration continue.
