Psychooncology. 2018 Oct 23. doi: 10.1002/pon.4928. [Epub ahead of print]
Associations of functional, psychosocial, medical, and socio-demographic factorswith cognitive screening in chemotherapy naïve patients with breast cancer.
Nakamura ZM(1), Deal AM(2), Nyrop KA(2)(3), Choi SK(4), Wood WA(2)(3), MussHB(2)(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(4)Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
OBJECTIVE: To describe associations of functional, psychosocial, medical, andsocio-demographic factors with performance on a cognitive screening test inchemotherapy naïve patients with breast cancer.METHODS: Women with breast cancer were recruited between 2009 and 2018. TheBlessed Orientation Memory Concentration Test (BOMC) was administered prior tochemotherapy. Associations between baseline BOMC and functional (KarnofskySelf-Reported Performance Rating Scale (KPS), Time Up and Go Test (TUG), MedicalOutcomes Study (MOS) Physical Function, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living(IADL)), psychosocial (Mental Health Inventory-13, MOS Social Activity Limitationand Social Support Survey), medical, and socio-demographic variables wereassessed using linear regression analysis.RESULTS: In a sample of 331 women with breast cancer, the mean age was 65.2 yearsand 68.6% were 65 and older. Mean BOMC score was 3.60 on a scale from 0 (best) to28 (worst). After controlling for demographic factors, worse BOMC screening testresults were associated with KPS < 80 (p=0.01), IADL< 14 (p=0.02), TUG ≥ 14seconds (p=0.001), worse MOS Physical Function (p=0.0006), depressive symptoms(p=0.04), and social activity limitations (p=0.01).CONCLUSION: In a sample of women with breast cancer, pre-treatment cognitivescreening scores did not reveal profound cognitive impairment. BOMC screeningscores were associated with multiple measures of physical function, but furtherresearch is needed to determine a clinically meaningful cut point in the BOMC forscreening of cancer-related cognitive impairment.
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
