J Control Release. 2018 Sep 28;286:289-300. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.08.005.Epub 2018 Aug 4.
P-glycoprotein targeted and near-infrared light-guided depletion ofchemoresistant tumors.
Mao C(1), Zhao Y(1), Li F(1), Li Z(2), Tian S(3), Debinski W(4), Ming X(5).
Author information:(1)Departments of Cancer Biology and Biomedical Engineering, Comprehensive CancerCenter, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Research Imaging Center, University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.(3)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.(4)Departments of Cancer Biology and Biomedical Engineering, Comprehensive CancerCenter, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA;Brain Tumor Center of Excellence, Thomas K Hearn Brain Tumor Research Center,Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.(5)Departments of Cancer Biology and Biomedical Engineering, Comprehensive CancerCenter, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.Electronic address: xming@wakehealth.edu.
Drug resistance remains a formidable challenge to cancer therapy. P-glycoprotein(Pgp) contributes to multidrug resistance in numerous cancers by preventingaccumulation of anticancer drugs in cancer cells. Strategies to overcome thisresistance have been vigorously sought for over 3 decades, yet clinical solutionsdo not exist. The main reason for the failure is lack of cancer specificity ofsmall-molecule Pgp inhibitors, thus causing severe toxicity in normal tissues. Inthis study, Pgp-targeted photodynamic therapy (PDT) was developed to achievesuperior cancer specificity through antibody targeting plus locoregional lightactivation. Thus, a Pgp monoclonal antibody was chemically modified with IR700, aporphyrin photosensitizer. In vitro studies showed that theantibody-photosensitizer conjugates specifically bind to Pgp-expressing drugresistant cancer cells, and caused dramatic cytotoxicity upon irradiation with anear infrared light. We then tested our Pgp-targeted approach in mouse xenograftmodels of chemoresistant ovarian cancer and head and neck cancer. In both models,targeted PDT produced rapid tumor shrinkage, and significantly prolonged survivalof tumor-bearing mice. We conclude that our targeted PDT approach producesmolecularly targeted and spatially selective ablation of chemoresistant tumors,and thereby provides an effective approach to overcome Pgp-mediated multidrugresistance in cancer, where conventional approaches have failed.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
