Semin Oncol Nurs. 2018 Aug;34(3):303-315. doi: 10.1016/j.soncn.2018.06.011. Epub2018 Aug 23.
Social Inequalities in Palliative Care for Cancer Patients in the United States:A Structured Review.
Elk R(1), Felder TM(2), Cayir E(2), Samuel CA(2).
Author information:(1)Ronit Elk, PhD: Research Associate Professor, Co-Director, Palliative CareInitiative, College of Nursing, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. TishaM. Felder, PhD, MSW: Assistant Professor, Director, Diversity, Equity andInclusion, College of Nursing, Cancer Prevention & Control Program, Arnold Schoolof Public Health, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. Ebru Cayir, MD: PhDCandidate, Department of Health Promotion, Education and Behavior, Arnold Schoolof Public Health, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. Cleo A. Samuel,PhD: Assistant Professor, Department of Health Policy and Management, GillingsSchool of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC..Electronic address: elk@mailbox.sc.edu.(2)Ronit Elk, PhD: Research Associate Professor, Co-Director, Palliative CareInitiative, College of Nursing, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. TishaM. Felder, PhD, MSW: Assistant Professor, Director, Diversity, Equity andInclusion, College of Nursing, Cancer Prevention & Control Program, Arnold Schoolof Public Health, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. Ebru Cayir, MD: PhDCandidate, Department of Health Promotion, Education and Behavior, Arnold Schoolof Public Health, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. Cleo A. Samuel,PhD: Assistant Professor, Department of Health Policy and Management, GillingsSchool of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC.
OBJECTIVES: To identify patterns of access to and use or provision of palliativecare services in medically underserved and vulnerable groups diagnosed withcancer.DATA SOURCES: Google Scholar, PubMed, MEDLINE, and Web of Science were searchedto identify peer-reviewed studies that described palliative care in medicallyunderserved or vulnerable populations diagnosed with cancer.CONCLUSION: Disparities in both access and referral to palliative care areevident in many underserved groups. There is evidence that some groups receivedpoorer quality of such care.IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Achieving health equity in access to andreceipt of quality palliative care requires prioritization of this area inclinical practice and in research funding.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.
