J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2018 Nov 1;103(11):4216-4223. doi:10.1210/jc.2018-00803.
Radioactive Iodine-Related Clonal Hematopoiesis in Thyroid Cancer Is Common andAssociated With Decreased Survival.
Boucai L(1), Falcone J(2), Ukena J(1), Coombs CC(3), Zehir A(4), Ptashkin R(4),Berger MF(4)(5), Levine RL(5)(6), Fagin JA(1)(5).
Author information:(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-KetteringCancer Center, New York, New York.(2)Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York.(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(4)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NewYork.(5)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering CancerCenter, New York, New York.(6)Department of Medicine, Leukemia Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering CancerCenter, New York, New York.
Context: Radioactive iodine (RAI) has been epidemiologically associated with thedevelopment of hematologic malignancies. Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) is a precursorclonal state that confers increased risk of leukemia and occurs at an elevatedrate in patients with thyroid cancer relative to other solid tumors.Objective: We explore if the high prevalence of CH may be a result of RAIexposure and whether CH may be a surrogate in the association between RAI andleukemia.Design: CH, CH-potential driver (CH-PD), and overall survival were evaluated in279 patients with advanced thyroid carcinoma.Results: The prevalence of CH in patients with thyroid cancer was 37%, and thatof CH-PD was 5.2%. Age was the strongest predictor of CH and CH-PD. For everyyear increase in age, there was a 5% and 13% increase in the odds of CH andCH-PD, respectively. RAI dose was significantly associated with CH and CH-PD,even after adjustment for age, external beam radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.For every 10 mCi increase in the dose of RAI administered, there was a 2% and 4%increase in the odds of CH and CH-PD, respectively. Patients with CH-PDpreviously exposed to RAI had a significantly poorer survival, even whenstratified by age (heart rate = 3.75, 95% CI = 1.23 to 11.5, P = 0.02).Conclusions: RAI was associated with a high prevalence of CH, and CH is aprecursor state of hematologic malignancies. The implications of this study mayfavor identification of CH in patients where the risks might outweigh thebenefits of receiving RAI therapy for thyroid cancer.
