Cancer Treat Rev. 2018 Jul 23;70:47-55. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.07.014. [Epubahead of print]
Personalizing aromatase inhibitor therapy in patients with breast cancer.
Hamadeh IS(1), Patel JN(2), Rusin S(2), Tan AR(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Cancer Pharmacology, Levine Cancer Institute, Atrium Health,Charlotte, NC, United States. Electronic address:Issam.hamadeh@carolinashealthcare.org.(2)Department of Cancer Pharmacology, Levine Cancer Institute, Atrium Health,Charlotte, NC, United States; University of North Carolina Eshelman School ofPharmacy, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.(3)Department of Solid Tumor Oncology and Investigational Therapeutics, LevineCancer Institute, Atrium Health, Charlotte, NC, United States.
BACKGROUND: Aromatase inhibitors are the mainstay of therapy for patients withhormone receptor-positive breast cancer in both adjuvant and metastatic settings.Their use in clinical practice has been challenged by significantinter-individual variability in response and tolerability. Hence, the purpose ofthis paper is to provide a succinct review of the literature on the geneticfactors contributing to this variability.DESIGN: A systematic search in PUBMED was conducted to identify studies thatinvestigated the association between germline polymorphisms and disposition,clinical response and toxicities of aromatase inhibitors, as well as thoseevaluating the implications of mutations in ESR1 on clinical response.RESULTS: Polymorphisms in genes coding for phase I and phase II enzymes(pharmacokinetic genes) significantly modulated exposure to aromatase inhibitors;however, there is a paucity of data linking interindividual variability in drugexposure to clinical response. Furthermore, pharmacogenetic studies interrogatingrelationship between polymorphisms in CYP19A1 (the target site of aromataseinhibitors, i.e. a pharmacodynamic gene) and response yielded conflictingresults. Acquired mutations in ESR1 receptors have been identified as theunderlying mechanism of resistance to aromatase inhibitors, and likely predictdrug response. Although some pharmacogenetic studies have implicatedpolymorphisms in CYP19A1 and ESR1 with drug-related side effects, the putativerole of these genes in predicting toxicity warrants further validation.CONCLUSION: Genetic polymorphisms in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic genesappear to influence aromatase inhibitor disposition, response and/or toxicity;however, prospective interventional studies are needed to understand theapplication of genomics to personalize aromatase inhibitor therapy in breastcancer patients.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
