BMC Cancer. 2018 Aug 6;18(1):788. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4672-3.
The comparative effectiveness of decision aids in diverse populations with earlystage prostate cancer: a study protocol for a cluster-randomized controlled trialin the NCI Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP), Alliance A191402CD.
Pacyna JE(1), Kim S(2), Yost K(1), Sedlacek H(2), Petereit D(3), Kaur J(4),Rapkin B(5), Grubb R(6), Paskett E(7), Chang GJ(8), Sloan J(9), Basch E(10),Major B(9), Novotny P(1), Taylor J(11), Buckner J(1), Parsons JK(12), MorrisM(13), Tilburt JC(14).
Author information:(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(2)University Hospitals, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.(3)Regional Health, Rapid City, SD, USA.(4)Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.(5)Albert Einstein Cancer Center, Bronx, NY, USA.(6)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.(7)Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA.(8)MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(9)Alliance Statistics And Data Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(10)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(11)University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.(12)Moores UC San Diego Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Diego, CA, USA.(13)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.(14)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. tilburt.jon@mayo.edu.
BACKGROUND: Treatments for localized prostate cancer present challengingtradeoffs in the face of uncertain treatment benefits. These options are bestweighed in a process of shared decision-making with the patient's healthcareteam. Minority men experience disparities in prostate cancer outcomes, possiblydue in part to a lack of optimal communication during treatment selection.Decision aids facilitate shared decision-making, improve knowledge of treatmentoptions, may increase satisfaction with treatment choice, and likely facilitatelong-term quality of life.METHODS/DESIGN: This study will compare the effect of two evidence-based decisionaids on patient knowledge and on quality of life measured one year aftertreatment, oversampling minority men. One decision aid will be administered priorto specialist consultation, preparing patients for a treatment discussion. Theother decision aid will be administered within the consultation to facilitatetransparent, preference-sensitive, and evidence-informed deliberations. The studywill utilize a four-arm, block-randomized design to test whether each decisionaid alone (Arms 1 and 2) or in combination (Arm 3) can improve patient knowledgeand quality of life compared to usual care (Arm 4). The study, funded by theNational Cancer Institute's Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP), will bedeployed within select institutions that have demonstrated capacity to recruitminority populations into urologic oncology trials.DISCUSSION: Upon completion of the trial, we will have 1) tested theeffectiveness of two evidence-based decision aids in enhancing patients'knowledge of options for prostate cancer therapy and 2) estimated whetherdecision aids may improve patient quality of life one year after initialtreatment choice.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT03103321 . The trial registration date(on ClinicalTrials.gov) was April 6, 2017.
