Front Cell Neurosci. 2018 Jul 31;12:221. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2018.00221.eCollection 2018.
Revisiting Netrin-1: One Who Guides (Axons).
Boyer NP(1), Gupton SL(2)(3).
Author information:(1)Neurobiology Curriculum, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, United States.(2)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, The University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.(3)Neuroscience Center, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, United States.
Proper patterning of the nervous system requires that developing axons findappropriate postsynaptic partners; this entails microns to meters of extensionthrough an extracellular milieu exhibiting a wide range of mechanical andchemical properties. Thus, the elaborate networks of fiber tracts andnon-fasciculated axons evident in mature organisms are formed via complexpathfinding. The macroscopic structures of axon projections are highlystereotyped across members of the same species, indicating precise mechanismsguide their formation. The developing axon exhibits directionally biased growthtoward or away from external guidance cues. One of the most studied guidance cuesis netrin-1, however, its presentation in vivo remains debated. Guidance cues canbe secreted to form soluble or chemotactic gradients or presented bound to cellsor the extracellular matrix to form haptotactic gradients. The growth cone, ahighly specialized dynamic structure at the end of the extending axon, detectsthese guidance cues via transmembrane receptors, such as the netrin-1 receptorsdeleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) and UNC5. These receptors orchestrateremodeling of the cytoskeleton and cell membrane through both chemical andmechanotransductive pathways, which result in traction forces generated by thecytoskeleton against the extracellular environment and translocation of thegrowth cone. Through intracellular signaling responses, netrin-1 can triggereither attraction or repulsion of the axon. Here we review the mechanisms bywhich the classical guidance cue netrin-1 regulates intracellular effectors torespond to the extracellular environment in the context of axon guidance duringdevelopment of the central nervous system and discuss recent findings thatdemonstrate the critical importance of mechanical forces in this process.
