Dis Colon Rectum. 2018 Oct;61(10):1146-1155. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000001207.
Consolidation mFOLFOX6 Chemotherapy After Chemoradiotherapy Improves Survival inPatients With Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer: Final Results of a MulticenterPhase II Trial.
Marco MR(1), Zhou L(1), Patil S(2), Marcet JE(3), Varma MG(4), Oommen S(5),Cataldo PA(6), Hunt SR(7), Kumar A(8), Herzig DO(9), Fichera A(10), PoliteBN(11), Hyman NH(12), Ternent CA(13), Stamos MJ(14), Pigazzi A(14), Dietz D(15),Yakunina Y(1), Pelossof R(1), Garcia-Aguilar J(1); Timing of Rectal CancerResponse to Chemoradiation Consortium.
Author information:(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NewYork.(2)Department of Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York,New York.(3)Department of Surgery, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida.(4)Department of Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco,California.(5)Department of Surgery, John Muir Health, Concord, California.(6)Department of Surgery, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont.(7)Department of Surgery, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.(8)Department of Surgery, Washington State University, Spokane, Washington.(9)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon.(10)Department of Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NorthCarolina.(11)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.(12)Department of Surgery, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.(13)Department of Surgery, Creighton University Medical Center, University ofNebraska College of Medicine, Omaha, Nebraska.(14)Department of Surgery, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, California.(15)Department of Surgery, University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center,Cleveland, Ohio.
BACKGROUND: Adding modified FOLFOX6 (folinic acid, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin)after chemoradiotherapy and lengthening the chemoradiotherapy-to-surgery intervalis associated with an increase in the proportion of rectal cancer patients with apathological complete response.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to analyze disease-free and overallsurvival.DESIGN: This was a nonrandomized phase II trial.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at multiple institutions.PATIENTS: Four sequential study groups with stage II or III rectal cancer wereincluded.INTERVENTION: All of the patients received 50 Gy of radiation with concurrentcontinuous infusion of fluorouracil for 5 weeks. Patients in each group received0, 2, 4, or 6 cycles of modified FOLFOX6 after chemoradiation and before totalmesorectal excision. Patients were recommended to receive adjuvant chemotherapyafter surgery to complete a total of 8 cycles of modified FOLFOX6.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The trial was powered to detect differences inpathological complete response, which was reported previously. Disease-free andoverall survival are the main outcomes for the current study.RESULTS: Of 259 patients, 211 had a complete follow-up. Median follow-up was 59months (range, 9-125 mo). The mean number of total chemotherapy cycles differedamong the 4 groups (p = 0.002), because one third of patients in the groupassigned to no preoperative FOLFOX did not receive any adjuvant chemotherapy.Disease-free survival was significantly associated with study group, ypTNM stage,and pathological complete response (p = 0.004, <0.001, and 0.001). A secondaryanalysis including only patients who received ≥1 cycle of FOLFOX still showeddifferences in survival between study groups (p = 0.03).LIMITATIONS: The trial was not randomized and was not powered to show differencesin survival. Survival data were not available for 19% of the patients.CONCLUSIONS: Adding modified FOLFOX6 after chemoradiotherapy and before totalmesorectal excision increases compliance with systemic chemotherapy anddisease-free survival in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer.Neoadjuvant consolidation chemotherapy may have benefits beyond increasingpathological complete response rates. See Video Abstract athttp://links.lww.com/DCR/A739.
