Carcinogenesis. 2018 Sep 4. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgy115. [Epub ahead of print]
Colorectal Cancer-derived Small Extracellular Vesicles Establish an InflammatoryPre-metastatic Niche in Liver Metastasis.
Shao Y(1), Chen T(1), Zheng X(1), Yang S(2), Xu K(1), Chen X(3), Xu F(1), WangL(1), Shen Y(1), Wang T(4), Zhang M(1), Hu W(1), Ye C(1), Yu X(1), Shao J(4),Zheng S(1).
Author information:(1)Cancer Institute (Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and Intervention, ChinaNational Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology in MedicalSciences, Zhejiang Province, China), The Second Affiliated Hospital, ZhejiangUniversity School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.(2)Department of Medical Oncology, The Union Hospital of Fujian MedicalUniversity, Fujian, China.(3)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, United States of America.(4)Department of Pathology and Pathophysiology, Zhejiang University School ofMedicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
Liver metastases develop in more than half of patients with colorectal cancer(CRC) and are associated with a poor prognosis. The factors influencing livermetastasis of CRC are poorly characterized, but this information is urgentlyneeded. We have now discovered that small extracellular vesicles (sEVs, exosomes)derived from CRC can be specifically targeted to liver tissue and induce livermacrophage polarization toward an interleukin-6 (IL-6)-secreting pro-inflammatoryphenotype. More importantly, we found that microRNA-21-5p (miR-21) was highlyenriched in CRC-derived sEVs and was essential for creating a liverpro-inflammatory phenotype and liver metastasis of CRC. Silencing either miR-21in CRC-sEVs or Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) in macrophages, to which miR-21 binds,abolished CRC-sEVs' induction of pro-inflammatory macrophages. Furthermore,miR-21 expression in plasma-derived sEVs was positively correlated with livermetastasis in CRC patients. Collectively, our data demonstrate a pivotal role ofCRC-sEVs in promoting liver metastasis by inducing an inflammatory pre-metastaticniche through the miR-21-TLR7-IL6 axis. Thus, sEVs-miR-21 represents a potentialprognostic marker and therapeutic target for CRC patients with liver metastasis.
