Mol Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 31. doi: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-18-0173. [Epub ahead ofprint]
A Leukocyte Infiltration Score Defined by a Gene Signature Predicts MelanomaPatient Prognosis.
Zhao Y(1)(2), Schaafsma E(1)(2), Gorlov IP(3), Hernando E(4), Thomas NE(5), ShenR(6), Turk MJ(3)(7), Berwick M(8), Amos CI(9), Cheng C(10)(2)(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Biomedical Data Science, The Geisel School of Medicine atDartmouth College, Lebanon, New Hampshire.(2)Department of Molecular and Systems Biology, The Geisel School of Medicine atDartmouth College, Lebanon, New Hampshire.(3)Norris Cotton Cancer Center, The Geisel School of Medicine at DartmouthCollege, Lebanon, New Hampshire.(4)Department of Pathology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NewYork.(5)Department of Dermatology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NorthCarolina.(6)Department of Neurology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NewYork.(7)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The Geisel School of Medicine atDartmouth College, New Hampshire.(8)Department of Internal Medicine and Department of Dermatology, University ofNew Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico.(9)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.(10)Department of Biomedical Data Science, The Geisel School of Medicine atDartmouth College, Lebanon, New Hampshire. chao.cheng@dartmouth.edu.
Melanoma is the most aggressive type of skin cancer in the United States with anincreasing incidence. Melanoma lesions often exhibit high immunogenicity, withinfiltrating immune cells playing important roles in regression of tumorsoccurring spontaneously or caused by therapeutic treatment. Computational andexperimental methods have been used to estimate the abundance of immune cells intumors, but their applications are limited by the requirement of large gene setsor multiple antibodies. Although the prognostic role of immune cells has beenappreciated, a systematic investigation of their association with clinicalfactors, genomic features, prognosis and treatment response in melanoma is stilllacking. This study, identifies a 25-gene signature based on RNA-seq data fromThe Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-Skin Cutaneous Melanoma (TCGA-SKCM) dataset. Thissignature was used to calculate sample-specific Leukocyte Infiltration Scores(LIS) in six independent melanoma microarray datasets and scores were found tovary substantially between different melanoma lesion sites and molecularsubtypes. For metastatic melanoma, LIS was prognostic in all datasets with highLIS being associated with good survival. The current approach provided additionalprognostic information over established clinical factors, including age, tumorstage, and gender. In addition, LIS was predictive of patient survival in stageIII melanoma, and treatment efficacy of tumor-specific antigenvaccine.Implications: This study identifies a 25-gene signature that effectivelyestimates the level of immune cell infiltration in melanoma, which provides arobust biomarker for predicting patient prognosis. Mol Cancer Res; 1-11. ©2018AACR.
©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.
