Conflict of interest statement: C.M.P. is an equity stock holder and Board ofDirectors member of BioClassifier, L.L.C. and C.M.P. has filed patents on thePAM50 subtyping assay. The other authors declare no competing interests.
Genet Med. 2018 Sep 5. doi: 10.1038/s41436-018-0267-2. [Epub ahead of print]
Development of Clinical Domain Working Groups for the Clinical Genome Resource(ClinGen): lessons learned and plans for the future.
Milko LV(1), Funke BH(2)(3)(4), Hershberger RE(5), Azzariti DR(4), Lee K(6),Riggs ER(7), Rivera-Munoz EA(6), Weaver MA(8), Niehaus A(9), Currey EL(10),Craigen WJ(11), Mao R(12)(13), Offit K(14), Steiner RD(15), Martin CL(7), RehmHL(3)(4)(16), Watson MS(7), Ramos EM(10), Plon SE(6), Berg JS(6).
Author information:(1)Department of Genetics, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA. laura_milko@med.unc.edu.(2)Veritas Genetics, Danvers, Massachusetts, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(4)Partners HealthCare Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, Cambridge,Massachusetts, USA.(5)Divisions of Human Genetics and Cardiovascular Medicine, The Ohio StateUniversity Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Ohio, USA.(6)Department of Genetics, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(7)Autism & Developmental Medicine Institute, Geisinger Health System, Danville,Pennsylvania, USA.(8)American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.(9)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, USA.(10)National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), NIH, Bethesda, Maryland,USA.(11)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.(12)Department of Pathology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.(13)Molecular Genetics and Genomics in ARUP Laboratories, Salt Lake City, Utah,USA.(14)Clinical Genetics Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York,New York, USA.(15)Departments of Pediatrics and Genetics, University of Wisconsin School ofMedicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.(16)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
The Clinical Genome Resource (ClinGen) is supported by the National Institutes ofHealth (NIH) to develop expertly curated and freely accessible resources definingthe clinical relevance of genes and variants for use in precision medicine andresearch. To facilitate expert input, ClinGen has formed Clinical Domain WorkingGroups (CDWGs) to leverage the collective knowledge of clinicians, laboratorydiagnosticians, and researchers. In the initial phase of ClinGen, CDWGs werelaunched in the cardiovascular, hereditary cancer, and inborn errors ofmetabolism clinical fields. These early CDWGs established the infrastructurenecessary to implement standardized processes developed or adopted by ClinGenworking groups for the interpretation of gene-disease associations and variantpathogenicity, and provided a sustainable model for the formation of futuredisease-focused curation groups. The establishment of CDWGs requires recruitmentof international experts to broadly represent the interests of their field andensure that assertions made are reliable and widely accepted. Building on thesuccesses, challenges, and trade-offs made in establishing the original CDWGs,ClinGen has developed standard operating procedures for the development of CDWGsin new clinical domains, while maximizing efforts to scale up curation andfacilitate involvement of external groups who wish to utilize ClinGen methods andinfrastructure for expert curation.
