Blood Adv. 2018 Aug 28;2(16):2052-2062. doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2018022475.
Computational modeling and confirmation of leukemia-associated minorhistocompatibility antigens.
Lansford JL(1), Dharmasiri U(2), Chai S(3), Hunsucker SA(2), Bortone DS(2),Keating JE(4), Schlup IM(4), Glish GL(4), Collins EJ(5), Alatrash G(6), MolldremJJ(6), Armistead PM(2)(7), Vincent BG(2)(3)(7).
Author information:(1)School of Medicine.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center.(3)Curriculum in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology.(4)Department of Chemistry, and.(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.(6)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation & Cellular Therapy, The University ofTexas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX; and.(7)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.
T-cell responses to minor histocompatibility antigens (mHAs) mediate bothantitumor immunity (graft-versus-leukemia [GVL]) and graft-versus-host disease(GVHD) in allogeneic stem cell transplant. Identifying mHAs with high allelefrequency, tight binding affinity to common HLA molecules, and narrow tissuerestriction could enhance immunotherapy against leukemia. Genotyping and HLAallele data from 101 HLA-matched donor-recipient pairs (DRPs) werecomputationally analyzed to predict both class I and class II mHAs likely toinduce either GVL or GVHD. Roughly twice as many mHAs were predicted inHLA-matched unrelated donor (MUD) stem cell transplantation (SCT) compared withHLA-matched related transplants, an expected result given greater geneticdisparity in MUD SCT. Computational analysis predicted 14 of 18 previouslyidentified mHAs, with 2 minor antigen mismatches not being contained in thepatient cohort, 1 missed mHA resulting from a noncanonical translation of thepeptide antigen, and 1 case of poor binding prediction. A predicted peptideepitope derived from GRK4, a protein expressed in acute myeloid leukemia andtestis, was confirmed by targeted differential ion mobility spectrometry-tandemmass spectrometry. T cells specific to UNC-GRK4-V were identified by tetrameranalysis both in DRPs where a minor antigen mismatch was predicted and in DRPswhere the donor contained the allele encoding UNC-GRK4-V, suggesting that thisantigen could be both an mHA and a cancer-testis antigen. Computational analysisof genomic and transcriptomic data can reliably predict leukemia-associated mHAand can be used to guide targeted mHA discovery.
© 2018 by The American Society of Hematology.
