Lancet Oncol. 2018 Sep;19(9):e459-e469. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(18)30418-2.
Statistical analysis of patient-reported outcome data in randomised controlledtrials of locally advanced and metastatic breast cancer: a systematic review.
Pe M(1), Dorme L(2), Coens C(2), Basch E(3), Calvert M(4), Campbell A(5),Cleeland C(6), Cocks K(7), Collette L(2), Dirven L(8), Dueck AC(9), Devlin N(10),Flechtner HH(11), Gotay C(12), Griebsch I(13), Groenvold M(14), King M(15),Koller M(16), Malone DC(17), Martinelli F(2), Mitchell SA(18), Musoro JZ(2),Oliver K(19), Piault-Louis E(5), Piccart M(20), Pimentel FL(21), Quinten C(22),Reijneveld JC(23), Sloan J(24), Velikova G(25), Bottomley A(2); SettingInternational Standards in Analyzing Patient-Reported Outcomes and Quality ofLife Endpoints Data Consortium (SISAQOL).
Author information:(1)European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Brussels, Belgium.Electronic address: madeline.pe@eortc.org.(2)European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Brussels, Belgium.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(4)Centre for Patient Reported Outcomes Research, Institute of Applied HealthResearch, College of Medical and Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham,Birmingham, UK.(5)Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, San Francisco, CA, USA.(6)Department of Symptom Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX, USA.(7)Adelphi Values, Bollington, Cheshire, UK.(8)Leiden University Medical Center and Haaglanden Medical Center, Leiden and TheHague, Netherlands.(9)Alliance Statistics and Data Center, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.(10)Office of Health Economics, London, UK.(11)Clinic for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University ofMagdeburg, Magdeburg, Germany.(12)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia,Vancouver, BC, Canada.(13)Boehringer Ingelheim International GmBH, Ingelheim, Germany.(14)Department of Public Health and Bispebjerg Hospital, University ofCopenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.(15)School of Psychology and Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney,NSW, Australia.(16)Center for Clinical Studies, University Hospital Regensburg, Regensburg,Germany.(17)College of Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.(18)Outcomes Research Branch, Healthcare Delivery Research Program, Division ofCancer Control and Population Sciences, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD,USA.(19)International Brain Tumour Alliance, Surrey, UK.(20)Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.(21)Blueclinical Phase I, Porto, Portugal; Centro de Estudos e Investigação emSaúde da Universidade de Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.(22)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Surveillance and ResponseSupport Unit, Epidemiological Methods Section, Stockholm, Sweden.(23)VU University Medical Center, Department of Neurology & Brain Tumor Center,Amsterdam, Netherlands.(24)Alliance Statistics and Data Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(25)Leeds Institute of Cancer and Pathology, University of Leeds, St James'sHospital, Leeds, UK.
Although patient-reported outcomes (PROs), such as health-related quality oflife, are important endpoints in randomised controlled trials (RCTs), there islittle consensus about the analysis, interpretation, and reporting of these data.We did a systematic review to assess the variability, quality, and standards ofPRO data analyses in advanced breast cancer RCTs. We searched PubMed for Englishlanguage articles published in peer-reviewed journals between Jan 1, 2001, andOct 30, 2017. Eligible articles were those that reported PRO results from RCTs ofadult patients with advanced breast cancer receiving anti-cancer treatments withreported sample sizes of at least 50 patients-66 RCTs met the selection criteria.Only eight (12%) RCTs reported a specific PRO research hypothesis. Heterogeneityin the statistical methods used to assess PRO data was observed, with a mixtureof longitudinal and cross-sectional techniques. Not all articles addressed theproblem of multiple testing. Fewer than half of RCTs (28 [42%]) reported theclinical significance of their findings. 48 (73%) did not report how missing datawere handled. Our systematic review shows a need to improve standards in theanalysis, interpretation, and reporting of PRO data in cancer RCTs. Lack ofstandardisation makes it difficult to draw robust conclusions and comparefindings across trials. The Setting International Standards in the AnalyzingPatient-Reported Outcomes and Quality of Life Data Consortium was set up toaddress this need and develop recommendations on the analysis of PRO data inRCTs.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
