Urology. 2018 Oct 22. pii: S0090-4295(18)31102-6. doi:10.1016/j.urology.2018.10.016. [Epub ahead of print]
Perioperative Intravesical Chemotherapy for Patients with Non-Muscle InvasiveBladder Cancer: Understanding the Extent of and Sources of Variation inGuideline-Recommended Use.
Check DK(1), Aaronson DS(2), Nielsen ME(3), Lee VS(4), Ergas IJ(5), Roh JM(6),Kushi LH(7), Tang L(8), Kwan ML(9).
Author information:(1)Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research. Electronicaddress: devon.k.check@kp.org.(2)Department of Urology, Kaiser Permanente Northern California Oakland MedicalCenter. Electronic address: david.s.aaronson@kp.org.(3)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Electronicaddress: mnielsen@med.unc.edu.(4)Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research. Electronicaddress: valerie.s.lee@kp.org.(5)Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research. Electronicaddress: isaac.j.ergas@kp.org.(6)Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research. Electronicaddress: janise.m.roh@kp.org.(7)Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research. Electronicaddress: larry.kushi@kp.org.(8)Department of Cancer Prevention and Control, Roswell Park Comprehensive CancerInstitute. Electronic address: li.tang@roswellpark.org.(9)Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research. Electronicaddress: marilyn.l.kwan@kp.org.
OBJECTIVE: To examine intravesical chemotherapy (IVC) use according to non-muscleinvasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) patient disease risk, and the contributions ofmulti-level factors to variation in proficient use among patients withlow-intermediate disease.METHODS: This study included 988 patients diagnosed with NMIBC in an integratedhealth system in Northern California from 2015-2017. We calculated IVC receipt bydisease risk, and among patients with low-intermediate risk disease, assessed therelationship between multi-level factors and IVC receipt using a logisticregression model with random intercepts for provider and service area, andpatient-, provider-, and service area-level fixed effects. We further assessedthe association of provider- and service area-level factors with IVC use byexamining intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs).RESULTS: Similar proportions of low-intermediate (36%) and high-risk (34%)patients received IVC. In the multivariate analysis including low-intermediaterisk patients, service area volume was strongly and statistically significantlyassociated with IVC use (aOR, high- v. low-volume: 0.08, 95% CI: 0.01-0.58).Provider- and service area-level ICCs were large, (38%, p=0.0009 and 39% p=0.03,respectively) indicating that much of the variance in IVC use was explained byfactors at these levels.CONCLUSION: Our findings highlight opportunities to improve proficient use ofIVC. Future research should assess provider- and practice-level barriers to IVCuse among low-intermediate risk patients.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.
