Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2018 Sep 1;102(1):44-52. doi:10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.04.048. Epub 2018 Jun 5.
Content Validity of Anatomic Site-Specific Patient-Reported Outcomes Version ofthe Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) Item Sets forAssessment of Acute Symptomatic Toxicities in Radiation Oncology.
Sandler KA(1), Mitchell SA(2), Basch E(3), Raldow AC(1), Steinberg ML(1), SharifJ(1), Cook RR(4), Kupelian PA(1), McCloskey SA(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California, Los Angeles,California.(2)National Cancer Institute, Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences,Outcomes Research Branch, Rockville, Maryland.(3)University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, ChapelHill, North Carolina.(4)Department of Epidemiology, Fielding School of Public Health at UCLA, LosAngeles, California.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California, Los Angeles,California. Electronic address: smccloskey@mednet.ucla.edu.
PURPOSE: To improve assessment of symptomatic toxicity in cancer clinical trialsand complement clinician-based toxicity reporting, the US National CancerInstitute developed a measurement system called the Patient-Reported Outcomesversion of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE). Theobjective of this study was to examine the content validity of PRO-CTCAE inpatients undergoing radiation therapy and to establish anatomic site-specificitem sets for implementation in cancer research.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients receiving radiation to the brain, head and neck,breast, thorax, abdomen, or pelvis were recruited during the final week ofradiation. Participants described side effects qualitatively and completedanatomic site-specific checklists indicating the presence or absence ofsymptomatic toxicities drawn from the PRO-CTCAE library. Items endorsed by ≥20%of participants were selected for inclusion. Symptomatic toxicities describedqualitatively were content analyzed and summarized. Symptomatic toxicities notreflected in the PRO-CTCAE item library were tabulated.RESULTS: We conducted 389 interviews of patients receiving radiation to the brain(n = 46), head and neck (n = 69), breast (n = 134), thorax (n = 30), abdomen (n =27), female pelvis (n = 36), or male pelvis (n = 47). Median age was 62 years;62% were female. The 53 solicited PRO-CTCAE symptoms reflected all reportedradiation-induced toxicities with the exception of phlegm/mucus production andmouth/throat pain with swallowing in patients receiving head and neck radiation,eye dryness/irritation in patients undergoing brain radiation, and obstructiveurinary symptoms in men receiving pelvic radiation. The PRO-CTCAE items "skinburns" and "pain" require greater specificity to adequately reflect toxicitiesexperienced during radiation.CONCLUSIONS: PRO-CTCAE demonstrates strong content validity as a measure ofsymptomatic toxicities in patients receiving radiation. These results provideempirical support for the definition of site-specific PRO-CTCAE item sets toassess the symptomatic toxicities of radiation therapy. The site-specificPRO-CTCAE item sets developed herein are currently being deployed in ourdepartment via an electronic platform to capture treatment-related toxicity.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
