Biometrics. 2018 Aug 6. doi: 10.1111/biom.12941. [Epub ahead of print]
Joint skeleton estimation of multiple directed acyclic graphs for heterogeneouspopulation.
Liu J(1), Sun W(2), Liu Y(1)(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Statistics and Operations Research, The University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, U.S.A.(2)Biostatistics Program, Public Health Sciences Division Fred Hutchinson CancerResearch Center, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.(3)Department of Genetics, Department of Biostatistics, Carolina Center forGenome Sciences, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, U.S.A.
The directed acyclic graph (DAG) is a powerful tool to model the interactions ofhigh-dimensional variables. While estimating edge directions in a DAG oftenrequires interventional data, one can estimate the skeleton of a DAG (i.e., anundirected graph formed by removing the direction of each edge in a DAG) usingobservational data. In real data analyses, the samples of the high-dimensionalvariables may be collected from a mixture of multiple populations. Eachpopulation has its own DAG while the DAGs across populations may have significantoverlap. In this article, we propose a two-step approach to jointly estimate theDAG skeletons of multiple populations while the population origin of each samplemay or may not be labeled. In particular, our method allows a probabilistic softlabel for each sample, which can be easily computed and often leads to moreaccurate skeleton estimation than hard labels. Compared with separate estimationof skeletons for each population, our method is more accurate and robust tolabeling errors. We study the estimation consistency for our method, anddemonstrate its performance using simulation studies in different settings.Finally, we apply our method to analyze gene expression data from breast cancerpatients of multiple cancer subtypes.
© 2018, The International Biometric Society.
