Adv Radiat Oncol. 2018 Mar 14;3(3):356-365. doi: 10.1016/j.adro.2018.03.002.eCollection 2018 Jul-Sep.
Preservation of swallowing function with de-intensified chemoradiation therapyfor HPV-associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma.
Judy GD(1)(2), Green R(1), Aumer SL(3), Amdur RJ(4)(5), Tan X(2), Sheets N(6),Weissler M(3), Zanation A(3), Patel S(3), Hackman T(3), Mendenhall WM(4)(5),Chera BS(1)(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North CarolinaHospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, University of NorthCarolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Florida Hospitals,Gainesville, Florida.(5)Shands Cancer Center, University of Florida Hospitals, Gainesville, Florida.(6)REX/UNC Healthcare, Raleigh, North Carolina.
Purpose: This study aimed to compare the swallowing function in patients withhuman papillomavirus-associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma treatedwith de-intensified chemoradiation therapy (6 weeks, 60 Gy) versus thosereceiving standard-of-care chemoradiation therapy (7 weeks, 70 Gy).Methods and materials: A retrospective review was conducted of 78 patients withhuman papillomavirus-associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma withmodified barium swallow studies pretreatment and 6 to 8 weeks posttreatment. Theswallowing function was objectively scored for penetration, aspiration, andpharyngeal residue. Forty patients received de-intensified chemoradiation therapy(60 Gy image guided radiation therapy with weekly cisplatin 30 mg/m2) and 38patients received standard-of-care chemoradiation therapy (70 Gy image guidedradiation therapy with chemotherapy of the medical oncologist's choosing).Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to detect differences betweenthe cohorts with regard to laryngeal penetration, aspiration, and pharyngealresidue. A multivariate logistic regression was used to determine the overalleffect of treatment on the swallowing function. Patient-reported swallowingoutcomes in de-intensified cohort were assessed with the European Organisationfor Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Module for Head and NeckCancer and the Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common TerminologyCriteria for Adverse Events questionnaires.Results: Patients treated with de-intensified chemoradiation therapy wereassociated with a suggestion of lower risk of developing overall swallowingdysfunction (odds ratio [OR], 0.62; P = .07), laryngeal penetration (OR, 0.63;P = .12), and pharyngeal residue (OR, 0.61; P = .08). The mean pre- and 2-yearpost-European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Lifescores pertaining to swallowing (1-4 scale, higher worse) in the de-intensifiedcohort were 1.4 and 1.2 for liquids; 1.2 and 1.1 for purees; 1.5 and 1.7 forsolids, 1.0 and 1.3 for choked when swallowing; and 9.0 and 10.8 for compositescore, respectively. The mean pre- and 2-year post-Patient-Reported Outcomesversion of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events swallowingdifficulty scores (1-5 scale, with higher scores being worse) were 1.5 and 1.8,respectively.Conclusions: Compared with 7 weeks of 70 Gy, 6 weeks of 60 Gy de-intensifiedchemoradiation therapy appears to better preserve the baseline swallowingfunction (per objective modified barium swallow assessment). Patients treatedwith de-intensified chemoradiation therapy reported minimal changes in swallowingfunction.
