

18. Lab Chip. 2018 Oct 19. doi: 10.1039/c8lc00716k. [Epub ahead of print]

Microfluidic-based solid phase extraction of cell free DNA.

Campos CDM(1), Gamage SST(1), Jackson JM(1), Witek MA(2), Park DS(3), Murphy
MC(3), Godwin AK(4), Soper SA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.
ssoper@ku.edu and Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for Precision
Medicine, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.
ssoper@ku.edu and Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for Precision
Medicine, USA and Department of Biomedical Engineering, The University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(3)Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for Precision Medicine, USA and
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
LA, USA.
(4)University of Kansas Cancer Center, University of Kansas Medical Center,
Kansas City, KS, USA.
(5)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.
ssoper@ku.edu and Center of Biomodular Multi-scale Systems for Precision
Medicine, USA and University of Kansas Cancer Center, University of Kansas
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA and BioEngineering Program, The University
of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66047, USA and Department of Mechanical Engineering, The 
University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66047, USA and Ulsan National Institute of
Science and Technology, Ulsan, Republic of Korea.

Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is a liquid biopsy marker that can carry signatures (i.e., 
mutations) associated with certain pathological conditions. Therefore, the
extraction of cfDNA from a variety of clinical samples can be an effective and
minimally invasive source of markers for disease detection and subsequent
management. In the oncological diseases, circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), a cfDNA
sub-class, can carry clinically actionable mutations and coupled with next
generation sequencing or other mutation detection methods provide a venue for
effective in vitro diagnostics. However, cfDNA mutational analyses require high
quality inputs. This necessitates extraction platforms that provide high recovery
over the entire ctDNA size range (50 → 150 bp) with minimal interferences (i.e., 
co-extraction of genomic DNA), and high reproducibility with a simple workflow.
Herein, we present a novel microfluidic solid-phase extraction device (μSPE)
consisting of a plastic chip that is activated with UV/O3 to generate
surface-confined carboxylic acid functionalities for the μSPE of cfDNA. The μSPE 
uses an immobilization buffer (IB) consisting of polyethylene glycol and salts
that induce cfDNA condensation onto the activated plastic microfluidic surface.
The μSPE consists of an array of micropillars to increase extraction bed load
(scalable to loads >700 ng of cfDNA) and can be produced at low-cost using
replication-based techniques. The entire μSPE can be fabricated in a single
molding step negating the need for adding additional extraction supports to the
device simplifying production and keeping device and assay cost low. The μSPE
allowed for recoveries >90% of model cfDNA fragments across a range of sizes
(100-700 bp) and even the ability to extract efficiently short cfDNA fragments
(50 bp, >70%). In addition, the composition of the IB allowed for reducing the
interference of co-extracted genomic DNA. We demonstrated the clinical utility of
the μSPE by quantifying the levels of cfDNA in healthy donors and patients with
non-small-cell lung and colorectal cancers. μSPE extracted cfDNA from plasma
samples was also subjected to a ligase detection reaction (LDR) for determining
the presence of mutations in the KRAS gene for colorectal and non-small cell lung
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1039/c8lc00716k 
PMID: 30339164 
