Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2018 Aug 9. pii: S0360-3016(18)33519-3. doi:10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.07.2018. [Epub ahead of print]
Cardiovascular Preventive Care and Coordination Of Care In Prostate CancerSurvivors: A Multi-Institutional Prospective Study.
Holmes JA(1), Anderson RF(2), Hoffman LG(3), Showalter TN(4), Kasibhatla M(5),Collins SP(6), Papagikos MA(7), Barbosa BD(1), Stravers LJ(1), Mahbooba Z(1),Wang AZ(8), Chen RC(9).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC.(2)Rex Hospital Raleigh Radiation Oncology, Raleigh, NC.(3)UNC Health Care Clayton Radiation Oncology, Clayton, NC.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA.(5)High Point Regional Radiation Oncology, High Point, NC.(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Georgetown University School of Medicine,Washington, DC.(7)New Hanover Regional Medical Center Radiation Oncology, Wilmington, NC.(8)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC; University of North Carolina-Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, Chapel Hill, NC.(9)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC; University of North Carolina-Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, Chapel Hill, NC; Sheps Center for Health Services Research, University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC. Electronic address:ronald_chen@med.unc.edu.
BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer survivors who receive androgen deprivation therapy(ADT) are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease. They require coordinatedcare between cancer specialist and primary care physicians (PCPs) to monitor forcancer control and manage cardiovascular risk factors.METHODS: We prospectively enrolled 103 men receiving ADT with radiotherapy from 7institutions to assess cardiovascular risk factors and survivorship care. Medicalrecords, fasting labs, and patient-reported outcomes using a validated instrumentwere assessed at baseline (pre-treatment) and 1 year post-RT.RESULTS: Cardiovascular disease (39%) and risk factors (diabetes 22%,hypertension 63%, hyperlipidemia 31%) were prevalent at baseline. During thefirst year after RT completion, 63% received cardiovascular monitoring concordantwith American Heart Association guidelines. Fasting labs at 1 year showed 24%with inadequately controlled blood sugar, and 22% elevated cholesterol. Patientperceptions about care coordination were relatively low. At 1 year, 57% reportedthat their PCP "always know about the care I receive at other places," 67%reported that their cancer physician "communicated with other providers I see,"and 65% reported the cancer physician "knows the results of my visits with otherdoctors."CONCLUSIONS: Prostate cancer patients who receive ADT and RT are a vulnerablepopulation with prevalent baseline cardiovascular disease and risk factors, andsuboptimal survivorship care specifically related to coordinated care andcardiovascular monitoring. Clinical trials examining ways to improve the care andoutcomes of these survivors are needed.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.
