J Geriatr Oncol. 2018 Aug 18. pii: S1879-4068(18)30165-6. doi:10.1016/j.jgo.2018.08.004. [Epub ahead of print]
Inflammatory markers and overall survival in older adults with cancer.
Nishijima TF(1), Deal AM(2), Lund JL(3), Nyrop KA(4), Muss HB(5), Sanoff HK(6).
Author information:(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, and University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North, Carolina, USA; Department of Medicine, Divisionof Hematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,North, Carolina, USA. Electronic address: tomohiro_nishijima@med.unc.edu.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, and University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North, Carolina, USA. Electronic address:Allison_Deal@med.unc.edu.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, and University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North, Carolina, USA; Department of Epidemiology,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North, Carolina, USA..Electronic address: jennifer.lund@unc.edu.(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, and University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North, Carolina, USA; Department of Medicine, Divisionof Hematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,North, Carolina, USA. Electronic address: kirsten_nyrop@med.unc.edu.(5)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, and University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North, Carolina, USA; Department of Medicine, Divisionof Hematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,North, Carolina, USA. Electronic address: hyman_muss@med.unc.edu.(6)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, and University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North, Carolina, USA; Department of Medicine, Divisionof Hematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,North, Carolina, USA. Electronic address: hanna_sanoff@med.unc.edu.
BACKGROUND: Our aim was to evaluate the prognostic impact of three inflammatorymarkers - neutrophil lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet lymphocyte ratio (PLR) andlymphocyte monocyte ratio (LMR) - on overall survival (OS) in older adults withcancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Our sample includes 144 patients age ≥ 65 years with solidtumor cancer who completed a cancer-specific Geriatric Assessment (GA) from 2010to 2014 and had pretreatment CBC with differential. NLR was dichotomized apreviously reported cut-off value of 3.5, while PLR and LMR were dichotomized atthe median. Cox proportional hazards models evaluated whether NLR, PLR and LMRwere predictive of OS independent of covariates including a recently developed3-item GA-derived prognostic scale consisting of (1) "limitation in walkingseveral blocks", (2) "limitation in shopping", and (3) "≥ 5% unintentional weightloss in 6 months".RESULTS: Median age was 72 years, 53% had breast cancer, 27% had stage 4 cancer,14% had Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) < 80, 11% received less intensive thanstandard treatment for stage, and 39% had NLR > 3.5. In univariable analysis,higher NLR and PLR and lower LMR were significantly associated with worse OS. NLRremained a significant predictor of OS (HR = 2.16, 95% CI; 1.10-4.25, p = .025)after adjusting for cancer type, stage, age, KPS, treatment intensity, and theGA-derived prognostic scale.CONCLUSION: NLR > 3.5 is predictive of poorer OS in older adults with cancer,independent of traditional prognostic factors and the GA-derived prognosticscale.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
