Ann Surg. 2018 Sep;268(3):469-478. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000002923.
Does Surgical Margin Impact Recurrence in Noninvasive Intraductal PapillaryMucinous Neoplasms?: A Multi-institutional Study.
Dhar VK(1), Merchant NB(2), Patel SH(1), Edwards MJ(1), Wima K(1), Imbus J(3),Abbott DE(3), Weber SM(3), Louie R(4), Kim HJ(4), Martin RCG(5), Scoggins CR(5),Bentrem DJ(6), LeCompte MT(7), Idrees K(7), Lopez-Aguiar AG(8), Maithel SK(8),Kooby DA(8), Franco DA(2), Yakoub D(2), Ahmad SA(1).
Author information:(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, University of CincinnatiCollege of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH.(2)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, University of MiamiLeonard M Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL.(3)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, University of WisconsinSchool of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI.(4)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, University of NorthCarolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC.(5)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, University of LouisvilleSchool of Medicine, Louisville, KY.(6)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Northwestern UniversityFeinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL.(7)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Vanderbilt UniversityMedical Center, Nashville, TN.(8)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Winship CancerInstitute, Emory University, Atlanta, GA.
OBJECTIVE: The relevance of margin positivity on recurrence after resection ofintraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs) is poorly defined and representsone reason controversy remains regarding optimal surveillance recommendations.METHODS: Patients undergoing surgery for noninvasive IPMN at 8 academic medicalcenters from the Central Pancreas Consortium were analyzed. A positive margin wasdefined as presence of IPMN or pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia.RESULTS: Five hundred two patients underwent surgery for IPMN; 330 (66%) did nothave invasive cancer on final pathology and form the study cohort. Of these, 20%harbored high grade dysplasia. A positive margin was found in 20% of cases andwas associated with multifocal disease (P = 0.02). The majority of positivemargins were associated with low grade dysplasia. At a median follow-up of 36months, 34 (10.3%) patients recurred, with 6.7% developing recurrent cysticdisease and 3.6% developing invasive cancer. On multivariate analysis, marginpositivity was not associated with recurrence of either IPMN or invasive cancer(P > 0.05). No association between margin status and development of recurrence atthe margin was found. Only 6% of recurrences developed at the resection marginand median time to recurrence was 22 months. Of note, 18% of recurrences occurred> 5 years following surgery.CONCLUSION: Margin positivity after resection for noninvasive IPMNs is primarilydue to low grade dysplasia and is not associated with developing recurrence inthe remnant pancreas or at the resection margin. Long-term surveillance isrequired for all patients, as a significant number of recurrences developed over5 years after the index operation.
