Epidemiology. 2018 Jul 30. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0000000000000902. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Shared and study-specific dietary patterns and head and neck cancer risk in aninternational consortium.
De Vito R(1), Lee YCA(2), Parpinel M(3), Serraino D(4), Olshan AF(5), ZevallosJP(6), Levi F(7), Zhang ZF(8), Morgenstern H(9), Garavello W(10), Kelsey K(11),McClean M(12), Schantz S(13), Yu GP, Boffetta P(14), Chuang SC(15), HashibeM(16), La Vecchia C(17), Parmigiani G(18)(19), Edefonti V(17).
Author information:(1)Department of Computer Science, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA.(2)Division of Public Health, Department of Family & Preventive Medicine,University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.(3)Department of Medicine, University of Udine, Udine, Italy.(4)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, CRO Aviano National Cancer Institute,IRCCS, Aviano, Italy.(5)University of North Carolina School of Public Health, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(6)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(7)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (IUMSP), Lausanne UniversityHospital (CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland.(8)Department of Epidemiology, UCLA School of Public Health, Los Angeles, CA,USA.(9)Departments of Epidemiology and Environmental Health Sciences, School ofPublic Health and Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,MI, USA.(10)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, School of Medicine and Surgery, Universityof Milano - Bicocca, Monza, Italy.(11)Department of Epidemiology and Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, BrownUniversity, Providence, RI, USA.(12)Department of Environmental Health, Boston University School of PublicHealth, Boston, MA, USA.(13)Department of Otolaryngology, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York, NY,USA.(14)The Tisch Cancer Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, NewYork, NY, USA.(15)Institute of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research Institutes,Miaoli, Taiwan.(16)Division of Public Health, Department of Family & Preventive Medicine andHuntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City,UT, USA.(17)Branch of Medical Statistics, Biometry and Epidemiology "G. A. Maccacaro",Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, Università degli Studi diMilano, Milano, Italy.(18)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber CancerInstitute, Boston, MA, USA.(19)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health,Boston, MA, USA.
BACKGROUND: A few papers have considered reproducibility of a posteriori dietarypatterns across populations, as well as pattern associations with head and neckcancer risk when multiple populations are available.METHODS: We used individual-level pooled data from seven case-control studies(3,844 cases; 6,824 controls) participating in the International Head and NeckCancer Epidemiology consortium. We simultaneously derived shared andstudy-specific a posteriori patterns with a novel approach called multi-studyfactor analysis applied to 23 nutrients. We derived odds ratios (ORs) and 95%confidence intervals (CIs) for cancers of the oral cavity and pharynx combined,and larynx, from logistic regression models.RESULTS: We identified three shared patterns that were reproducible acrossstudies (75% variance explained): the Anti-oxidant vitamins and fiber (OR=0.57,CI: 0.41-0.78, highest vs. lowest score quintile) and the Fats (OR=0.80, CI:0.67-0.95) patterns were inversely associated with oral and pharyngeal cancerrisk. The Animal products and cereals (OR=1.5, CI: 1.1-2.1) and the Fats (OR=1.8,CI: 1.4-2.3) patterns were positively associated with laryngeal cancer risk,whereas a linear inverse trend in laryngeal cancer risk was evident for theAnti-oxidant vitamins and fiber pattern. We also identified four additionalstudy-specific patterns, one for each of the four US studies examined. We namedthem all as Dairy products and breakfast cereals and two were associated withoral and pharyngeal cancer risk.CONCLUSION: Multi-study factor analysis provides insight into patternreproducibility, and supports previous evidence on cross-country reproducibilityof dietary patterns and on their association with head and neck cancer risk.
