Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2018 Aug 9. pii: S0360-3016(18)33529-6. doi:10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.08.001. [Epub ahead of print]
Comparative Effectiveness of Prostate Cancer Treatment Options: Limitations ofRetrospective Analysis of Cancer Registry Data.
Pearlstein KA(1), Basak R(1), Chen RC(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Electronicaddress: Ronald_chen@med.unc.edu.
PURPOSE: Retrospective analyses of cancer registry and institutional data haveconsistently found better survival after radical prostatectomy versus radiationtherapy, which contrasts with findings from a randomized trial. This is likelybecause of the inability of retrospective studies to fully account forcomorbidity differences across treatment groups because of the lack of detaileddata in the registries. We use a unique population-based data set with detaileddata regarding comorbidities and functional limitations to assess whether thiscan provide valid comparisons of survival across prostate cancer treatmentgroups.METHODS AND MATERIALS: The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results(SEER)-Medicare Health Outcomes Survey (MHOS) data set results from a linkagebetween the SEER database and the MHOS database, which includes detailedinformation regarding patient-reported comorbidity and functional limitations. Weanalyzed 3102 patients with prostate cancer in SEER-MHOS and used latent classanalysis to identify the healthiest group with minimal comorbidity burden andfunctional limitations. Among the healthiest group, we examined overall survivalacross treatments using the Kaplan-Meier method.RESULTS: Three distinct health groups were identified using latent classanalysis; the healthiest group comprised 57% of the cohort and had a 10-yearoverall survival of 67%. Other health groups had higher rates of comorbidities orfunctional limitations. Among the healthiest group, 10-year overall survivaldiffered across treatment groups: no local treatment (55%), external beamradiation therapy (69%), brachytherapy (76%), and radical prostatectomy (85%).Survival curves for the 3 treated groups separated at 4 years of follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: Despite the detailed health status information available inSEER-MHOS, our retrospective analysis could not fully account for patientselection biases across prostate cancer treatment groups. These findingshighlight an important limitation of retrospective studies using population-baseddata sets and serve as a reminder to interpret results with caution.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
