J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2018 Oct 22:1078155218808084. doi: 10.1177/1078155218808084.[Epub ahead of print]
Infusion reactions following administration of intravenous rolapitant at anacademic medical center.
Cass AS(1), Odinet JS(1), Valgus JM(1)(2), Crona DJ(1)(3)(4).
Author information:(1)1 Department of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina Hospitals and Clinics,Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(2)2 Division of Practice Advancement and Continuing Education, Eshelman Schoolof Pharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)3 Division of Pharmacotherapy and Experimental Therapeutics, Eshelman Schoolof Pharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(4)4 Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, School of Medicine, University ofNorth Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
In 2017, due to a fluid shortage secondary to Hurricane Maria's devastation ofPuerto Rico, hospitals and health-systems began to substitute rolapitant forfosaprepitant as part of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting prevention andtreatment strategies. However, despite advantageous pharmacologic and formulation(e.g. long half-life, quicker time to onset, and lack of first-pass hepaticmetabolism) profiles, there seems to be significant risk of infusion-relatedhypersensitivity reactions associated with the administration of intravenousrolapitant. In January 2018, the U.S. FDA issued a Health Care Provider Letterstating that anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, and other serious hypersensitivityreactions have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Importantly, thesereactions were observed at a higher rate than initially reported in the phase 1bioequivalence study that led to FDA approval of intravenous rolapitant (2.8%),with many resulting in hospitalizations. At our institution, rolapitant-inducedinfusion-related reactions also occurred in more patients than expected (8.7%).Described herein are six cases of infusion-related hypersensitivity reactionswith intravenous rolapitant at the North Carolina Cancer Hospital. Due to thequick onset of the infusion-related hypersensitivity reactions with intravenousrolapitant, interpatient differences in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics areunlikely to be the cause. An objective assessment utilizing the Naranjo CausalityScale rates these infusion-related hypersensitivity reactions as definite adversedrug reactions.
