Gastroenterology. 2018 Aug 27. pii: S0016-5085(18)34921-7. doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2018.08.035. [Epub ahead of print]
Mortality From Post-screening (Interval) Colorectal Cancers is Comparable to ThatFrom Cancer in Unscreened Patients-a Randomized Sigmoidoscopy Trial.
Jodal HC(1), Løberg M(2), Holme Ø(3), Adami HO(4), Bretthauer M(5), EmilssonL(6), Ransohoff DF(7), Hoff G(8), Kalager M(9).
Author information:(1)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Transplantation Medicineand K. G. Jebsen Center for Colorectal Cancer Research, Oslo University Hospital,Oslo, Norway. Electronic address: h.c.jodal@medisin.uio.no.(2)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Transplantation Medicineand K. G. Jebsen Center for Colorectal Cancer Research, Oslo University Hospital,Oslo, Norway.(3)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Medicine, SorlandetHospital Kristiansand, Kristiansand, Norway.(4)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA; Department of MedicalEpidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.(5)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Transplantation Medicineand K. G. Jebsen Center for Colorectal Cancer Research, Oslo University Hospital,Oslo, Norway; Frontier Science, Boston, MA, USA.(6)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA; Vårdcentralen Värmlands Nysäter& Centre for Clinical Research, County Council of Värmland, Sweden.(7)Gastroenterology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,North Carolina, United States.(8)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Research Unit, Telemark Hospital,Skien, Norway; Cancer Registry of Norway, Oslo, Norway.(9)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health andSociety, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Transplantation Medicineand K. G. Jebsen Center for Colorectal Cancer Research, Oslo University Hospital,Oslo, Norway; Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T. H. Chan School of PublicHealth, Boston, MA, USA.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Endoscopic screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) is performedat longer time intervals than the fecal occult blood test or screens for breastor prostate cancer. This causes concerns about interval cancers, which have beenproposed to progress more rapidly. We compared outcomes of patients with intervalCRCs after sigmoidoscopy screening vs outcomes of patients with CRC who had notbeen screened.METHODS: We performed a secondary analysis of a randomized sigmoidoscopyscreening trial in Norway with 98,684 participants (age 50-64 years) who wererandomly assigned to groups that were (n=20,552) or were not (n=78,126) invitedfor sigmoidoscopy screening from 1999 through 2001; participants were followedfor a median 14.8 years. We compared CRC mortality and all-cause mortalitybetween individuals who underwent screening and were diagnosed with CRC 30 daysor more after screening (interval cancer group, n=163) and individuals diagnosedwith CRC in the non-screened group (controls, n=1740). All CRCs in the controlgroup were identified when they developed symptoms (clinically detected CRCs).Analyses were stratified by cancer site. We used Cox regression to estimatehazard ratio (HRs), adjusted for age and sex.RESULTS: Over the follow-up period, 43 individuals in the interval cancer groupdied from CRC; among controls, 525 died from CRC. Colorectal cancer mortality(adjusted HR, 0.98; 95% CI, 0.72-1.35; P=.92), rectosigmoid cancer mortality(adjusted HR, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.63-1.92; P=.74), and all-cause mortality (adjustedHR, 0.99; 95% CI 0.76-1.27; P=.91) did not differ significantly between theinterval cancer group and controls. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00119912CONCLUSION: In this randomized sigmoidoscopy screening trial, mortality did notdiffer significantly between individuals with interval CRCs and unscreenedpatients with clinically detected CRCs.
Copyright © 2018 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
