Nano Lett. 2018 Jul 31. doi: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.8b02321. [Epub ahead of print]
Engineering PD-1-Presenting Platelets for Cancer Immunotherapy.
Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Wang J(2)(3), Chen Z(3), Hu Q(3), Wang C(3), Yan J(3), DottiG(4), Huang P(1), Gu Z(2)(3).
Author information:(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory for Biomedical, Measurements and Ultrasound Imaging,Laboratory of Evolutionary Theranostics, School of Biomedical Engineering, HealthScience Center , Shenzhen University , Shenzhen 518060 , China.(2)Department of Bioengineering, California NanoSystems Institute, and Center forMinimally Invasive Therapeutics (C-MIT) , University of California , Los Angeles, California 90095 , United States.(3)Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering , University of North Carolina atChapel Hill and North Carolina State University , Raleigh , North Carolina 27695, United States.(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center , University of North Carolina , ChapelHill , North Carolina 27599 , United States.
Radical surgery still represents the treatment choice for several malignancies.However, local and distant tumor relapses remain the major causes of treatmentfailure, indicating that a postsurgery consolidation treatment is necessary.Immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors has elicited impressive clinicalresponses in several types of human malignancies and may represent the idealconsolidation treatment after surgery. Here, we genetically engineered plateletsfrom megakaryocyte (MK) progenitor cells to express the programmed cell deathprotein 1 (PD-1). The PD-1 platelet and its derived microparticle couldaccumulate within the tumor surgical wound and revert exhausted CD8+ T cells,leading to the eradication of residual tumor cells. Furthermore, when a low doseof cyclophosphamide (CP) was loaded into PD-1-expressing platelets todeplete regulatory T cells (Tregs), an increased frequency of reinvigorated CD8+lymphocyte cells was observed within the postsurgery tumor microenvironment,directly preventing tumor relapse.
