Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Sep 7. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-0040. [Epub ahead ofprint]
MERTK Promotes Resistance to Irreversible EGFR Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors inNon-small Cell Lung Cancers Expressing Wild-type EGFR Family Members.
Yan D(1), Parker RE(1), Wang X(2), Frye SV(2)(3), Earp HS 3rd(3)(4), DeRyckereD(1), Graham DK(5).
Author information:(1)Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta andDepartment of Pediatrics, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.(2)Center for Integrative Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, Division ofChemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Department of Medicine and Pharmacology, UNC Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(4)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of North Carolinaat Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(5)Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta andDepartment of Pediatrics, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.Douglas.Graham@choa.org.
Purpose: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death. Non-small celllung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for 85% of all lung cancers and over 60% expresswild-type EGFR (wtEGFR); however, EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) havelimited effect in most patients with wtEGFR tumors. We previously identifiedMERTK tyrosine kinase as a potential therapeutic target in NSCLC and developedMRX-2843, a novel MERTK-selective inhibitor with favorable properties forclinical translation. The goal of this study was to determine whether MERTK andEGFR inhibitor combination therapy could provide antitumor efficacy againstwtEGFR NSCLC.Experimental Design: An unbiased screen of 378 kinase inhibitors wasconducted to identify synergistic interactions with MRX-2843 and biochemical andtherapeutic effects were determined in vitro and in vivo Results: Numerousirreversible EGFR TKIs, including CO-1686 and osimertinib, synergized withMRX-2843 to inhibit wtEGFR NSCLC cell expansion, irrespective of driver oncogenestatus. CO-1686 and MRX-2843 combination therapy inhibited MERTK, wtEGFR, andERBB2/ERBB3 and decreased downstream PI3K-AKT, MAPK-ERK, and AURORA kinase (AURK)signaling more effectively than single agents. Inhibition of PI3K, AKT or AURK,but not MEK, synergized with CO-1686 to inhibit tumor cell expansion, suggestingtheir roles as key redundant resistance pathways. Treatment with MRX-2843 andCO-1686 or osimertinib prevented xenograft growth while single agents had limitedeffect. Tumor growth inhibition was durable even after treatment with combinationtherapy was stopped.Conclusions: Our data support the application of MRX-2843 incombination with an irreversible EGFR TKI as a novel strategy for treatment ofpatients with wtEGFR NSCLC. Clin Cancer Res; 1-13. ©2018 AACR.
©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.
