J Vis Exp. 2018 Jul 21;(137). doi: 10.3791/57167.
Utilizing 18F-FDG PET/CT Imaging and Quantitative Histology to Measure DynamicChanges in the Glucose Metabolism in Mouse Models of Lung Cancer.
Momcilovic M(1), Bailey ST(2), Lee JT(3), Zamilpa C(3), Jones A(3), AbdelhadyG(1), Mansfield J(4), Francis KP(5), Shackelford DB(6).
Author information:(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of California LosAngeles David Geffen School of Medicine.(2)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.(3)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, University of California LosAngeles.(4)Andor Technology.(5)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California Los Angeles DavidGeffen School of Medicine.(6)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of California LosAngeles David Geffen School of Medicine; DShackelford@mednet.ucla.edu.
A hallmark of advanced tumors is a switch to aerobic glycolysis that is readilymeasured by [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography(18F-FDG PET) imaging. Co-mutations in the KRAS proto-oncogene and the LKB1 tumorsuppressor gene are frequent events in lung cancer that drive hypermetabolic,glycolytic tumor growth. A critical pathway regulating the growth and metabolismof these tumors is the mechanistic target of the rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, whichcan be effectively targeted using selective catalytic mTOR kinase inhibitors. ThemTOR inhibitor MLN0128 suppresses glycolysis in mice bearing tumors with Kras andLkb1 co-mutations, referred to as KL mice. The therapy response in KL mice isfirst measured by 18F-FDG PET and computed tomography (CT) imaging before andafter the delivery of MLN0128. By utilizing 18F-FDG PET/CT, researchers are ableto measure dynamic changes in the glucose metabolism in genetically engineeredmouse models (GEMMs) of lung cancer following a therapeutic intervention withtargeted therapies. This is followed by ex vivo autoradiography and aquantitative immunohistochemical (qIHC) analysis using morphometric software. Theuse of qIHC enables the detection and quantification of distinct changes in thebiomarker profiles following treatment as well as the characterization ofdistinct tumor pathologies. The coupling of PET imaging to quantitative histologyis an effective strategy to identify metabolic and therapeutic responses in vivoin mouse models of disease.
