JAMA Intern Med. 2018 Oct 1;178(10):1311-1316. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2018.3054.
Evaluating Shared Decision Making for Lung Cancer Screening.
Brenner AT(1)(2), Malo TL(2), Margolis M(3), Elston Lafata J(2)(4), James S(3),Vu MB(3)(5), Reuland DS(1)(2).
Author information:(1)Division of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, University of NorthCarolina School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill.(3)Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, Eshelman School of Pharmacy,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.(5)Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill.
Importance: The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends that shared decisionmaking (SDM) involving a thorough discussion of benefits and harms should occurbetween clinicians and patients before initiating lung cancer screening (LCS)with low-dose computed tomography. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Servicesrequire an SDM visit using a decision aid as a prerequisite for LCS coverage.However, little is known about how SDM about LCS occurs in practice.Objective: To assess the quality of SDM about the initiation of LCS in clinicalpractice.Design, Setting, and Participants: A qualitative content analysis was performedof transcribed conversations between primary care or pulmonary care physiciansand 14 patients presumed to be eligible for LCS, recorded between April 1, 2014,and March 1, 2018, that were identified within a large database.Main Outcomes and Measures: Independent observer ratings of communicationbehaviors of physicians using the OPTION (Observing Patient Involvement inDecision Making) scale, a validated 12-item measure of SDM (total score, 0-100points, where 0 indicates no evidence of SDM and 100 indicates evidence of SDM atthe highest skill level); time spent discussing LCS during visits; and evidenceof decision aid use.Results: A total of 14 conversations about initiating LCS were identified; 9patients were women, and 5 patients were men; the mean (SD) patient age was 63.9(5.1) years; 7 patients had Medicare, and 8 patients were current smokers. Halfthe conversations were conducted by primary care physicians. The mean totalOPTION score for the 14 LCS conversations was 6 on a scale of 0 to 100 (range,0-17). None of the conversations met the minimum skill criteria for 8 of the 12SDM behaviors. Physicians universally recommended LCS. Discussion of harms (suchas false positives and their sequelae or overdiagnosis) was virtually absent. Themean total visit length of a discussion was 13:07 minutes (range, 3:48-27:09minutes). The mean time spent discussing LCS was 0:59 minute (range, 0:16-2:19minutes), or 8% of the total visit time (range, 1%-18%). There was no evidencethat decision aids or other patient education materials for LCS were used.Conclusions and Relevance: In this small sample of recorded encounters aboutinitiating LCS, the observed quality of SDM was poor and explanation of potentialharms of screening was virtually nonexistent. Time spent discussing LCS wasminimal, and there was no evidence that decision aids were used. Although thesefindings are preliminary, they raise concerns that SDM for LCS in practice may befar from what is intended by guidelines.
