Cancer Nurs. 2018 Jun 1. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000000606. [Epub ahead of print]
Quality of Life in Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer Survivors: A SystematicReview.
Jung A(1), Nielsen ME, Crandell JL, Palmer MH, Bryant AL, Smith SK, Mayer DK.
Author information:(1)Author Affiliations: School of Nursing (Drs Jung, Crandell, Palmer, Bryant,and Mayer), School of Medicine (Dr Nielsen), and Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter (Drs Nielsen, Bryant, and Mayer), The University of North Carolina atChapel Hill; and School of Nursing, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina (DrSmith).
BACKGROUND: Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) represents approximately75% of newly diagnosed patients with bladder cancer. Non-muscle-invasive bladdercancer survivors have unique chronic burdens including frequent recurrences,repeated surveillance cystoscopies and treatments, and the highest lifetimemedical cost per person among all cancers.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to summarize studies assessing qualityof life (QOL) in NMIBC survivors.METHODS: The literature from January 2005 to March 2017 found in PubMed, CINAHL,and PsycINFO databases was reviewed systematically. Inclusion criteria were asfollows: (1) research about NMIBC survivors, (2) outcomes included QOL, (3)original research article published in peer-reviewed journals, and (4) publishedin English.RESULTS: A total of 15 studies were included: 14 quantitative studies and 1mixed-methods study. Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer survivors hadsignificantly lower QOL compared with the general population, especially infatigue, physical and role functioning, and mental health. Repeated transurethralresections and intravesical treatments were associated with impaired physicalfunction and mental health. Most NMIBC survivors had concerns of urinary andbowel problems and sexual function.CONCLUSION: Despite a good prognosis, NMIBC and its treatment have a significantimpact on QOL in survivors. The findings showed large burdens in NMIBC survivorsand suggest that further research is needed to better understand potentialopportunities to improve QOL in this population.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Oncology nurses are in the critical position forassessing symptoms and concerns. Oncology nurses should pay special attention toNMIBC survivors who have unique symptoms and burden with the aim of improvingsurvivors' QOL.
