Sci Rep. 2018 Jun 21;8(1):9470. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-27738-x.
Lifestyle Factors, Colorectal Tumor Methylation, and Survival Among AfricanAmericans and European Americans.
Busch EL(1)(2), Galanko JA(3), Sandler RS(3), Goel A(4), Keku TO(5).
Author information:(1)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham andWomen's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(2)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston,MA, USA.(3)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(4)Center for Gastrointestinal Research, Center for Translational Genomics andOncology, Baylor Scott & White Research Institute, Charles A Sammons CancerCenter, Baylor University Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.Ajay.Goel@BSWHealth.org.(5)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.temitope_keku@med.unc.edu.
Differences in tumor characteristics might partially account for mortalitydisparities between African American (AA) and European American (EA) colorectalcancer patients. We evaluated effect modification by race for exposure andpatient-outcomes associations with colorectal tumor methylation among 218 AA and267 EA colorectal cancer cases from the population-based North Carolina ColonCancer Study. Tumor methylation was assessed in CACNA1G, MLH1, NEUROG1, RUNX3,and SOCS1. We used logistic regression to assess whether associations betweenseveral lifestyle factors-intake of fruits, vegetables, folate, and non-steroidalanti-inflammatory drugs-and tumor methylation were modified by race. Proportionalhazards models were used to evaluate whether race modified associations betweentumor methylation and time to all-cause mortality. Greater fruit consumption wasassociated with greater odds of high NEUROG1 methylation among EA at methylationcut points of 15-35% (maximum OR 3.44, 95% CI 1.66, 7.13) but not among AA.Higher folate intake was associated with lower odds of high CACNA1G methylationamong EAs but not AAs. Tumor methylation was not associated with all-causemortality for either group. Race might modify associations between lifestylefactors and colorectal tumor methylation, but in this sample did not appear tomodify associations between tumor methylation and all-cause mortality.
