Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2018 Jul 26. pii: S0360-3016(18)31644-4. doi:10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.07.191. [Epub ahead of print]
Patient and Dosimetric Predictors of Genitourinary and Bowel Quality of LifeAfter Prostate SBRT: Secondary Analysis of a Multi-institutional Trial.
Wang K(1), Chen RC(2), Kane BL(3), Medbery CA(4), Underhill KJ(5), Gray JR(6),Peddada AV(7), Fuller DB(8).
Author information:(1)University of North Carolina Hospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.Electronic address: kyle_wang@med.unc.edu.(2)University of North Carolina Hospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)California Cancer Center, Fresno, California.(4)Southwest Radiation Oncology, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.(5)Benefis Sletten Cancer Institute, Great Falls, Montana.(6)Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Nashville, Tennessee.(7)Penrose-St. Francis Health Services, Colorado Springs, Colorado.(8)Genesis Health Care Partners, San Diego, California.
PURPOSE: Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is an emerging option forlocalized prostate cancer. However, there are no standard dosimetric guidelines,and normal tissue tolerances for extreme hypofractionation are not well defined.We analyzed dosimetric correlations with patient-reported urinary and bowelquality of life (QOL) on a prospective trial.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients with low- or intermediate-risk prostate cancerfrom 18 institutions were enrolled on a phase 2 trial from 2007 to 2012 andtreated using robotic SBRT to 38 Gy in 4 fractions on consecutive days. Noandrogen deprivation was used. Patients received simulation with Foley catheterfor urethral delineation. The clinical target volume was prostate (low-riskpatients) or prostate plus 1 cm of proximal seminal vesicles (intermediate-riskpatients). Multiple dosimetric measures for urethra, bladder, and rectum wereprospectively recorded. QOL using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Compositewas assessed before and after treatment at protocol-specific time points. Linearregression was used to assess factors associated with QOL at 1 month and 2 years.RESULTS: A total of 259 patients were enrolled. QOL data were available for 98%,96%, and 84% at baseline, 1 month, and 2 years, respectively. Median age was69 years. Prior transurethral resection of the prostate and clinical targetvolume size were associated with 2-year urinary incontinence. There was a trendtoward worse 2-year obstruction/irritation in older patients on multivariableanalysis. Bladder and urethral doses were not associated with either 1-month or2-year urinary QOL. In contrast, rectum maximum dose was associated with both1-month and 2-year bowel QOL. At 2 years, the proportion with moderate or bigoverall bowel problems (as defined by Expanded Prostate Cancer IndexComposite-26) was significantly higher in patients with rectum maximum dosegreater than versus less than the median 37.4 Gy (11% vs 2%, Fisher's exact testP = .008).CONCLUSIONS: These results provide novel data that contribute to a betterunderstanding of patient and dosimetric factors associated with adverse QOLeffects from prostate SBRT.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
