Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2018 Jun 3. doi: 10.1002/pds.4564. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Methodologic limitations of prescription opioid safety research andrecommendations for improving the evidence base.
Ranapurwala SI(1)(2), Naumann RB(1)(2), Austin AE(2)(3), Dasgupta N(1)(2)(4),Marshall SW(1)(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(2)Injury Prevention Research Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Maternal and Child Health, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(4)Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
PURPOSE: The ongoing opioid epidemic has claimed more than a quarter millionAmericans' lives over the past 15 years. The epidemic began with an escalation ofprescription opioid deaths and has now evolved to include secondary waves ofillicit heroin and fentanyl deaths, while the deaths due to prescription opioidoverdoses are still increasing. In response, the Centers for Disease Control andPrevention (CDC) moved to limit opioid prescribing with the release of opioidprescribing guidelines for chronic noncancer pain in March 2016. The guidelinesrepresent a logical and timely federal response to this growing crisis. However,CDC acknowledged that the evidence base linking opioid prescribing to opioid usedisorders and overdose was grades 3 and 4.METHODS: Motivated by the need to strengthen the evidence base, this reviewdetails limitations of the opioid safety studies cited in the CDC guidelines witha focus on methodological limitations related to internal and external validity.RESULTS: Internal validity concerns were related to poor confounding control,variable misclassification, selection bias, competing risks, and potentialcompeting interventions. External validity concerns arose from the use of limitedsource populations, historical data (in a fast-changing epidemic), and issueswith handling of cancer and acute pain patients' data. We provide a nonexhaustivelist of 7 recommendations to address these limitations in future opioid safetystudies.CONCLUSION: Strengthening the opioid safety evidence base will aid any futurerevisions of the CDC guidelines and enhance their prevention impact.
Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
