Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.
Value Health. 2018 Jun;21(6):742-747. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2017.09.009. Epub 2017Nov 7.
Informing the Tolerability of Cancer Treatments Using Patient-Reported OutcomeMeasures: Summary of an FDA and Critical Path Institute Workshop.
Kluetz PG(1), Kanapuru B(2), Lemery S(2), Johnson LL(2), Fiero MH(2), ArscottK(3), Barbachano Y(4), Basch E(5), Campbell M(2), Cappelleri JC(6), Cella D(7),Cleeland C(8), Coens C(9), Daniels S(2), Denlinger CS(10), Fairclough DL(11),Hillard JR(12), Minasian L(13), Mitchell SA(13), O'Connor D(4), Patel S(14),Rubin EH(15), Ryden A(16), Soltys K(17), Sridhara R(2), Thanarajasingam G(18),Velikova G(19), Coons SJ(20).
Author information:(1)Oncology Center of Excellence, US Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring,MD, USA. Electronic address: paul.kluetz@fda.hhs.gov.(2)Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, US Food and Drug Administration,Silver Spring, MD, USA.(3)Geisinger Commonwealth School of Medicine, Scranton, PA, USA.(4)Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, Victoria, London, UK.(5)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(6)Pfizer Inc., Groton, CT, USA.(7)Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University,Chicago, IL, USA.(8)Department of Symptom Research, Division of Internal Medicine, UT MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(9)European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) HQ, Qualityof Life Department, Brussels, Belgium.(10)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(11)Department of Biostatistics and Informatics, Colorado School of PublicHealth, Aurora, CO, USA.(12)Patient Representative, East Lansing, MI, USA.(13)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.(14)Genentech, South San Francisco, CA, USA.(15)Merck Research Laboratories, Merck & Co., Kenilworth, NJ, USA.(16)AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden.(17)Therapeutic Products Directorate, Health Products and Food Branch, HealthCanada, Ottawa, ON, Canada.(18)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(19)Leeds Institute of Cancer and Pathology, University of Leeds, St James'sInstitute of Oncology, Leeds, UK.(20)Patient-Reported Outcome Consortium, Critical Path Institute, Tucson, AZ,USA.
The US Food and Drug Administration and the Critical Path Institute'sPatient-Reported Outcome (PRO) Consortium convened a cosponsored workshop on theuse of PRO measures to inform the assessment of safety and tolerability in cancerclinical trials. A broad array of international stakeholders involved in oncologydrug development and PRO measurement science provided perspectives on the role ofPRO measures to provide complementary clinical data on the symptomatic sideeffects of anticancer agents. Speakers and panelists explored the utility ofinformation derived from existing and emerging PRO measures, focusing on the PROversion of the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria forAdverse Events. Panelists and speakers discussed potential ways to improve thecollection, analysis, and presentation of PRO data describing symptomatic adverseevents to support drug development and better inform regulatory and treatmentdecisions. Workshop participants concluded the day with a discussion of possibleapproaches to the patient-reported assessment of an investigational drug'soverall side effect burden as a potential clinical trial end point. The Food andDrug Administration reiterated its commitment to collaborate with internationaldrug development stakeholders to identify rigorous methods to incorporate thepatient perspective into the development of cancer therapeutics.
Copyright © 2018 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and OutcomesResearch (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
