

23. Cell Rep. 2018 Oct 16;25(3):702-714.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.09.056.

Cdh1 and Pik3ca Mutations Cooperate to Induce Immune-Related Invasive Lobular
Carcinoma of the Breast.

An Y(1), Adams JR(2), Hollern DP(3), Zhao A(4), Chang SG(4), Gams MS(4), Chung
PED(5), He X(3), Jangra R(2), Shah JS(2), Yang J(2), Beck LA(2), Raghuram N(1),
Kozma KJ(1), Loch AJ(2), Wang W(2), Fan C(3), Done SJ(6), Zacksenhaus E(5),
Guidos CJ(4), Perou CM(7), Egan SE(8).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center for Research and Learning,
The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4, Canada; Department of
Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Program in Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center for Research and Learning,
The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4, Canada.
(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Departments of Genetics and Pathology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(4)Program in Developmental and Stem Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center for
Research and Learning, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4,
Canada; Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Division of Cell and Molecular Biology, Toronto General Research Institute,
University Health Network, and Department of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON, Canada; The Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research at 
the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre and The Laboratory Medicine Program,
University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Departments of Genetics and Pathology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. Electronic address:
cperou@med.unc.edu.
(8)Program in Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center for Research and Learning,
The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4, Canada; Department of
Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic
address: segan@sickkids.ca.

CDH1 and PIK3CA are the two most frequently mutated genes in invasive lobular
carcinoma (ILC) of the breast. Transcription profiling has identified molecular
subtypes for ILC, one of which, immune-related (IR), is associated with gene
expression linked to lymphocyte and macrophage infiltration. Here, we report that
deletion of Cdh1, together with activation of Pik3ca in mammary epithelium of
genetically modified mice, leads to formation of IR-ILC-like tumors with immune
cell infiltration, as well as gene expression linked to T-regulatory (Treg) cell 
signaling and activation of targetable immune checkpoint pathways. Interestingly,
these tumors show enhanced Rac1- and Yap-dependent transcription and signaling,
as well as sensitivity to PI3K, Rac1, and Yap inhibitors in culture. Finally,
high-dimensional immunophenotyping in control mouse mammary gland and IR-ILC
tumors by mass cytometry shows dramatic alterations in myeloid and lymphoid
populations associated with immune suppression and exhaustion, highlighting the
potential for therapeutic intervention via immune checkpoint regulators.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.09.056 
PMID: 30332649 
