Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2018 Aug;35:22-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2018.04.004. Epub 2018May 17.
A systematic scoping review of the recent literature (∼2011-2017) about the costsof illness to parents of children diagnosed with cancer.
Santacroce SJ(1), Tan KR(2), Killela MK(2).
Author information:(1)School of Nursing, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, United States. Electronic address: sheila.santacroce@unc.edu.(2)School of Nursing, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, United States.
PURPOSE: The study purpose was to map and identify gaps in the recent(∼2011-2017) literature on the costs of illness to parents of children diagnosedwith cancer. The costs of illness include direct costs, indirect costs andpsychosocial costs.METHODS: A systematic scoping review was conducted. Data sources included PubMed,CINAHL, PsychInfo and EconLit. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they wereconducted in high-income countries, published in the English language, andreported parent perspectives on direct costs, indirect costs and/or psychosocialcosts due to financial costs.RESULTS: 25 studies were eligible. Most were conducted in Canada, the USA, orSweden. The studies used a variety of designs, target populations, time framesand sample sizes. Intervention studies were lacking. Across studies fathers wereunderrepresented. While no study comprehensively measured costs of illness, morestudies used rigorous methods and considered psychosocial costs. Financial costswere measured using a micro-costing or general estimates approach. Psychosocialcosts were measured using a variety of PRO measures, some of which wereinvestigator developed. The studies provide evidence that financial toxicityoccurs in pediatric oncology.CONCLUSIONS: Future studies should comprehensively measure costs using aconsistent set of established measures and make efforts to recruit fathers tocost of illness research. Interventions to mitigate financial toxicity areneeded.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
