Support Care Cancer. 2018 Oct;26(10):3353-3364. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4318-7.Epub 2018 Jun 30.
The pathophysiology of cancer-related fatigue: current controversies.
O'Higgins CM(1)(2)(3), Brady B(3)(4), O'Connor B(3)(4), Walsh D(5)(6)(7)(8),Reilly RB(1)(2)(9).
Author information:(1)School of Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.(2)Trinity Centre for Bioengineering, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.(3)Academic Department of Palliative Medicine, Our Lady's Hospice and CareServices, Dublin, Ireland.(4)School of Medicine and Medical Sciences, University College Dublin, Dublin,Ireland.(5)School of Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.Declan.Walsh@carolinashealthcare.org.(6)Academic Department of Palliative Medicine, Our Lady's Hospice and CareServices, Dublin, Ireland. Declan.Walsh@carolinashealthcare.org.(7)School of Medicine and Medical Sciences, University College Dublin, Dublin,Ireland. Declan.Walsh@carolinashealthcare.org.(8)Department of Supportive Oncology, Levine Cancer Institute, CarolinasHealthCare System, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Charlotte, NC, USA. Declan.Walsh@carolinashealthcare.org.(9)School of Engineering, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
Fatigue is one of the most common and debilitating cancer symptoms, and isassociated with impaired quality of life. The exact pathophysiology ofcancer-related fatigue (CRF) is poorly understood, but in any individual, it islikely multifactorial and involves inter-related cytokine, muscular,neurotransmitter, and neuroendocrine changes. Underlying CRF mechanisms proposedinclude central and peripheral hypotheses. Central mechanisms include hypothesesabout cytokine dysregulation, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-axis disruption,circadian rhythm disruption, serotonin, and vagal afferent nerve function whileperipheral mechanisms include hypotheses about adenosine triphosphate and musclecontractile properties. Currently, these hypotheses are largely based on evidencefrom other conditions in which fatigue is characteristic. The purpose of thisarticle is to provide a narrative review of the literature and present thecurrent controversies in the pathophysiology of CRF, particularly in relation tocentral and peripheral hypotheses for CRF. An understanding of pathophysiologymay facilitate direct and simple therapeutic interventions for those with cancer.
