Gastroenterology. 2018 Oct;155(4):1128-1139.e6. doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2018.06.079. Epub 2018 Jul 5.
No Association Between Screening for Hepatocellular Carcinoma and ReducedCancer-Related Mortality in Patients With Cirrhosis.
Moon AM(1), Weiss NS(2), Beste LA(3), Su F(4), Ho SB(5), Jin GY(6), Lowy E(6),Berry K(6), Ioannou GN(7).
Author information:(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of North CarolinaSchool of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(2)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, and FredHutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington.(3)Division of General Internal Medicine, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound HealthcareSystem and University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Healthcare Systemand University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.(5)Division of Gastroenterology, Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System andUniversity of California, San Diego, California.(6)Research and Development, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Healthcare System,Seattle, Washington.(7)Division of Gastroenterology, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Healthcare Systemand University of Washington, Seattle, Washington; Research and Development,Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Healthcare System, Seattle, Washington. Electronicaddress: georgei@medicine.washington.edu.
Comment inGastroenterology. 2018 Oct;155(4):972-974.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Screening patients with cirrhosis for hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC) has been recommended. We conducted a matched case-control study within theUS Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system to determine whether screening byabdominal ultrasonography (USS) and/or by measuring serum level of α-fetoprotein(AFP) was associated with decreased cancer-related mortality in patients withcirrhosis.METHODS: We defined cases (n = 238) as patients with cirrhosis who died of HCCfrom January 1, 2013 through August 31, 2015 and had been in VA care with adiagnosis of cirrhosis for at least 4 years before the diagnosis of HCC. Wematched each case to 1 control (n = 238), defined as a patient with cirrhosis whodid not die of HCC and had been in VA care for at least 4 years before the dateof the matched case's HCC diagnosis. Controls were matched to cases by year ofcirrhosis diagnosis, race and ethnicity, age, sex, etiology of cirrhosis, Modelfor End-Stage Liver Disease score, and VA medical center. We identified all USSand serum AFP tests performed within 4 years before the date of HCC diagnosis incases or the equivalent index date in controls and determined by chart extraction(blinded to case or control status) whether these tests were performed forscreening.RESULTS: There were no significant differences between cases and controls in theproportions of patients who underwent screening USS (52.9% vs 54.2%), screeningmeasurement of serum AFP (74.8% vs 73.5%), screening USS or measurement of serumAFP (81.1% vs 79.4%), or screening USS and measurement of serum AFP (46.6% vs48.3%) within 4 years before the index date, with or without adjusting forpotential confounders. There also was no difference in receipt of these screeningtests within 1, 2, or 3 years before the index date.CONCLUSIONS: In a matched case-control study of the VA health care system, wefound that screening patients with cirrhosis for HCC by USS, measurement of serumAFP, either test, or both tests was not associated with decreased HCC-relatedmortality. We encourage additional case-control studies to evaluate the efficacyof screening for HCC in other health care systems, in which available records aresufficiently detailed to enable identification of the indication for USS and AFPtests.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.
