Vaccine. 2018 Jul 5. pii: S0264-410X(18)30924-1. doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.06.073. [Epub ahead of print]
An environmental scan to examine stakeholder perspectives on human papillomavirusvaccination: A mixed methods study.
Lake P(1), Kasting ML(2), Malo T(3), Giuliano AR(2), Vadaparampil ST(4).
Author information:(1)Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA.(2)Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA; Center for Infection in CancerResearch, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(4)Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA; College of Medicine, University ofSouth Florida, Tampa, FL, USA. Electronic address:susan.vadaparampil@moffitt.org.
PURPOSE: Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine series completion rates among femalesand males remain low in Florida (46.4% and 34.5%, respectively). Multiplestakeholders influence vaccination uptake, including health care providers(HCPs), public health professionals (PHPs), and members of professionalorganizations. We examined stakeholder efforts related to increasing vaccineuptake and education among parents/adolescents and HCPs.METHODS: We conducted an environmental scan of stakeholder efforts and identifiedstakeholders using our professional networks and a snowball sampling approach.Stakeholders (n = 46) completed a survey about involvement in and barriers tovaccination promotion efforts. A subset (n = 12) of stakeholders participated infollow-up interviews further exploring vaccination efforts and barriers. Surveydata were analyzed using descriptive statistics. Interview data were analyzedusing deductive analysis and coded using constructs from the PRECEDE-PROCEEDmodel.RESULTS: The majority of our survey sample was PHPs (50.0%) and HCPs (32.6%).Stakeholder efforts were focused on adolescent/parent/HCP education includingproviding: educational materials for HCPs (55.8%) and adolescents/parents(59.6%), one-on-one consultations for adolescents/parents (55.3%), and HCPeducation (54.7%). Lack of knowledge/understanding and education/information werebarriers reported across almost all groups/areas. Office staff/HCP education anddistribution of patient education materials were efforts described as importantduring qualitative interviews. Stakeholders also noted HCP discomfort whenrecommending HPV vaccine, parental perceptions that the vaccine is unnecessary,and a lack of education/understanding among parents and HCPs.CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest the need for parent/adolescent education,specifically targeting key areas we identified: importance and benefits of HPVvaccine, and education and skill building in vaccine communication for HCPs.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
