Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2018 Jul;127:1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.04.003.Epub 2018 Apr 17.
"No pain, No gain" still true with immunotherapy: When the finger shows the moon,look at the moon!
Milano G(1), Innocenti F(2), Lacarelle B(3), Ciccolini J(4).
Author information:(1)Oncopharmacology Unit, EA3836 UNS, Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, 33 avenue deValombrose, Nice, France. Electronic address: gerard.milano@nice.unicancer.fr.(2)University of North Carolina, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, LinebergerComprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address:innocent@email.unc.edu.(3)SMARTc Unit, Inserm S_911, La Timone University Hospital of Marseille,Marseille, France. Electronic address: bruno.lacarelle@ap-hm.fr.(4)SMARTc Unit, Inserm S_911, La Timone University Hospital of Marseille,Marseille, France. Electronic address: joseph.ciccolini@univ-amu.fr.
There is a rising evidence that the proverbial statement "No pain, No gain" firstcoined at the light of pioneering clinical experiences with canonicalchemotherapy still holds true in the era of modern treatments of cancer. Thisclose relationship between the occurrence of specific drug-related toxicity andtreatment outcome has been confirmed since then with a large variety oftreatments, ranging from cytotoxics, hormonotherapy, targeted therapy and muchinterestingly even with the latest immune checkpoint inhibitors. In the currentcontext of precision medicine, and along with the constant quest for identifyingpredictive biomarkers, close monitoring of treatment-related toxicities couldtherefore be convenient to help predicting therapeutic response, but presentsseveral caveats. The purpose of this review is to briefly describe theserelationships across the different treatments, to comment on possible underlyingmechanisms and to comment on possible strategies aiming at exploiting thisrelationship while keeping the maximal safety ensured in patients with cancer. Inparticular, this review will investigate on how drug exposure along with germinaland somatic genetic issues does impact on the "No Pain, No Gain" aphorism, andwhy the temptation to use treatment-related toxicities as a cheap and convenientway to predict clinical outcome or to adapt dosing should be resisted. We doadvocate instead for developing comprehensive genomic support along withextensive biomathematical modeling to better customize dosing and shift towards anew "No Pain, Maximal Gain" paradigm.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
