Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have the followingcompeting interests: Dr. Althoff serves on the scientific advisory board forTrioHealth and previously served on a scientific advisory board for GileadSciences, Inc. Dr. Moore is a consultant to Medscape. Dr. Eron is a consultant toViiV Healthcare, Gilead Sciences, Merck, and Janssen; he was previously aconsultant to Bristol-Myers Squibb. The University of North Carolina at ChapelHill receives research contracts from ViiV Healthcare, Gilead Science, andJanssen, on which Dr. Eron is an investigator. The remaining authors havedeclared that no competing interests exist. This does not alter our adherence toPLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials, though we note restrictions todata access.
Epidemiology. 2018 Sep;29(5):658-665. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0000000000000867.
Estimating the Impact of Changes to Occupational Standards for Silica Exposure onLung Cancer Mortality.
Keil AP(1), Richardson DB(1), Westreich D(1), Steenland K(2).
Author information:(1)From the Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC.(2)Department of Environmental Health, Rollins School of Public Health, EmoryUniversity, Atlanta, GA.
BACKGROUND: Respiratory exposure to silica is associated with the risk of deathowing to malignant and nonmalignant disease. 2.3 million US workers are exposedto silica. Occupational exposure limits for silica are derived from a number oflines of evidence, including observational studies. Observational studies may besubject to healthy worker survivor bias, which could result in underestimates ofsilica's impact on worker mortality and, in turn, bias risk estimates foroccupational exposure limits.METHODS: Using data on 65,999 workers pooled across multiple industries, weestimate the impacts of several hypothetical occupational exposure limits onsilica exposure on lung cancer and all-cause mortality. We use the parametricg-formula, which can account for healthy worker survivor bias.RESULTS: Assuming we could eliminate occupational exposure, we estimate thatthere would be 20.7 fewer deaths per 1,000 workers in our pooled study by age 80(95% confidence interval = 14.5, 26.8), including 3.91 fewer deaths owing to lungcancer (95% CI = 1.53, 6.30). Less restrictive interventions demonstrated smallerbut still substantial risk reductions.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that occupational exposure limits for silica canbe further strengthened to reduce silica-associated mortality and illustrate howcurrent risk analysis for occupational limits can be improved.
