Am J Transl Res. 2018 Jun 15;10(6):1663-1676. eCollection 2018.
Topiramate exhibits anti-tumorigenic and metastatic effects in ovarian cancercells.
Xu G(1)(2), Fang Z(2)(3), Clark LH(2)(4), Sun W(2), Yin Y(2), Zhang R(1),Sullivan SA(2), Tran AQ(2), Kong W(5), Wang J(5), Zhou C(2)(4), Bae-JumpVL(2)(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Gynecology, Shanghai Jiaotong University Affiliated Sixth PeopleHospital South Campus Shanghai, P. R. China.(2)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel HillChapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Obstetrics, Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital, CapitalMedical University Beijing, P. R. China.(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Beijing Obstetrics and GynecologyHospital, Capital Medical University Beijing, P. R. China.
Ovarian cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer related deaths among womenworldwide, with an overall 5-year survival of only 30-40%. Carbonic anhydrasesare up-regulated in many types of cancer and play an important role in tumorprogression and metastasis. Carbonic anhydrase 9 has been implicated as apotential anti-tumorigenic target. Topiramate (TPM) is a potent inhibitor ofcarbonic anhydrase isozymes, including carbonic anhydrase 9, and has been shownto have anti-tumorigenic activity in several cancer types. Our goal was toevaluate the effect of TPM on cell proliferation and to identify possiblemechanisms by which TPM inhibits cell growth in ovarian cancer. TPM significantlyinhibited ovarian cancer cell proliferation and induced cell cycle G1 arrest,cellular stress and apoptosis through the AKT/mTOR and MAPK pathways. TPM alsoexerted anti-metastatic effects by decreasing the adhesion and invasion ofovarian cancer cells and affecting the expression of critical regulators of theepithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Our findings demonstrate that TPM hasanti-tumorigenic effects in ovarian cancer and is worthy of further explorationin clinical trials.
