Health Educ Behav. 2018 Jul 1:1090198118778333. doi: 10.1177/1090198118778333.[Epub ahead of print]
Assessing Levels and Correlates of Implementation of Evidence-Based Approachesfor Colorectal Cancer Screening: A Cross-Sectional Study With Federally QualifiedHealth Centers.
Walker TJ(1), Risendal B(2), Kegler MC(3), Friedman DB(4), Weiner BJ(5), WilliamsRS(6), Tu SP(7), Fernandez ME(1).
Author information:(1)1 The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, TX, USA.(2)2 Colorado School of Public Health, Aurora, CO, USA.(3)3 Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.(4)4 University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.(5)5 University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.(6)6 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(7)7 University of California Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
Multiple evidence-based approaches (EBAs) exist to improve colorectal cancerscreening in health clinics. The success of these approaches is tied to effectiveimplementation. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to assess theimplementation of EBAs for colorectal cancer screening and clinic-levelcorrelates of implementation in federally qualified health centers (FQHCs). Weconducted descriptive and cross-sectional analyses using data collected from FQHCclinics across seven states ( n = 51). A clinic representative completedelectronic surveys about clinic characteristics (e.g., size, patientcharacteristics, and medical record system characteristics) and theimplementation of Community Guide recommended EBAs (e.g., client reminders, smallmedia, and provider assessment and feedback). We used bivariate Spearmancorrelations to assess clinic-level correlates with implementation outcomes. Mostclinics were planning to implement, in the early implementation stages, orinconsistently implementing EBAs. No EBA was fully implemented by more than nine(17.6%) clinics. Clinic size variables were inversely related to implementationlevels of one-on-one education; medical record variables were directly related toimplementation levels of client and provider reminders as well as providerassessment and feedback; and rapid and timely feedback from clinic leaders wasdirectly associated with implementation levels of four out of six EBAs. Given thevarying levels of implementation, clinics need to assess current use ofimplementation strategies and improve effective program delivery to increasecolorectal cancer screening among their patients. In addition, clinics shouldalso consider how their characteristics may support or serve as a barrier toimplementation in their respective settings.
