J Nanobiotechnology. 2018 Jun 11;16(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s12951-018-0378-6.
Nanotechnology: a promising method for oral cancer detection and diagnosis.
Chen XJ(1), Zhang XQ(2), Liu Q(3), Zhang J(1)(4), Zhou G(5)(6).
Author information:(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology(Hubei-MOST) and Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, Schooland Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, People's Republicof China.(2)School of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Life Sciences, Wuhan Universityof Technology, Wuhan, 430070, People's Republic of China. zhangxq@whut.edu.cn.(3)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics and Center forNanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.(4)Department of Oral Medicine, School and Hospital of Stomatology, WuhanUniversity, Wuhan, 430079, People's Republic of China.(5)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology(Hubei-MOST) and Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, Schooland Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, People's Republicof China. zhougang@whu.edu.cn.(6)Department of Oral Medicine, School and Hospital of Stomatology, WuhanUniversity, Wuhan, 430079, People's Republic of China. zhougang@whu.edu.cn.
Oral cancer is a common and aggressive cancer with high morbidity, mortality, andrecurrence rate globally. Early detection is of utmost importance for cancerprevention and disease management. Currently, tissue biopsy remains the goldstandard for oral cancer diagnosis, but it is invasive, which may cause patientdiscomfort. The application of traditional noninvasive methods-such as vitalstaining, exfoliative cytology, and molecular imaging-is limited by insufficientsensitivity and specificity. Thus, there is an urgent need for exploringnoninvasive, highly sensitive, and specific diagnostic techniques. Nano detectionsystems are known as new emerging noninvasive strategies that bring the detectionsensitivity of biomarkers to nano-scale. Moreover, compared to current imagingcontrast agents, nanoparticles are more biocompatible, easier to synthesize, andable to target specific surface molecules. Nanoparticles generate localizedsurface plasmon resonances at near-infrared wavelengths, providing higher imagecontrast and resolution. Therefore, using nano-based techniques can helpclinicians to detect and better monitor diseases during different phases of oralmalignancy. Here, we review the progress of nanotechnology-based methods in oralcancer detection and diagnosis.
