Invest New Drugs. 2018 Jun 28. doi: 10.1007/s10637-018-0629-2. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Cabozantinib-induced serum creatine kinase elevation and musculoskeletalcomplaints.
Stump SE(1), Whang YE(2)(3), Crona DJ(4)(5)(6).
Author information:(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina Medical Center, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(2)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, School ofMedicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(4)Department of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina Medical Center, ChapelHill, NC, USA. daniel.crona@unc.edu.(5)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC, USA. daniel.crona@unc.edu.(6)Division of Pharmacotherapy and Experimental Therapeutics, Eshelman School ofPharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.daniel.crona@unc.edu.
Cabozantinib is a multikinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of metastaticmedullary thyroid cancer and advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in patients whohave received prior anti-angiogenic therapy. While associations between serumcreatine kinase (CK) elevations and other tyrosine kinase inhibitors used for thetreatment of solid malignancies have been previously reported, we report a caseof cabozantinib-associated CK elevation that was associated with musculoskeletalcomplaints by an RCC patient. Nine days following initiation of cabozantinib, thepatient reported muscle cramps and serum CK had increased from levels 12 monthsearlier that were within normal limits to a grade 1 elevation of 244 units/L.Despite a dose reduction, her CK continued to rise over the next 2 months,leading to a peak CK of 914 units/L. Due to this grade 3 elevation, cabozantinibwas permanently discontinued, and her CK subsequently returned to a grade 1elevation within one week and then to baseline within 3 weeks. The temporalrelationship between drug exposure and CK increase strongly suggests causality.To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of CK elevationattributed to cabozantinib, but cabozantinib-induced CK elevations could beunder-reported, and providers should monitor for musculoskeletal complaintsduring cabozantinib therapy.
