J Oncol Pract. 2018 Aug;14(8):e462-e483. doi: 10.1200/JOP.17.00054. Epub 2018 Jul13.
Strategies for Successful Survivorship Care Plan Implementation: Results From aQualitative Study.
Birken SA(1), Clary AS(1), Bernstein S(1), Bolton J(1), Tardif-Douglin M(1),Mayer DK(1), Deal AM(1), Jacobs SR(1).
Author information:(1)Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolinaat Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill; and RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC.
INTRODUCTION: Care for US cancer survivors is often fragmented, contributing topoor health outcomes. Care and outcomes may improve when survivors and follow-upcare providers receive survivorship care plans (SCPs), written documentscontaining information regarding cancer diagnosis, treatment, surveillance plans,and health promotion. However, implementing SCPs is challenging. As such, wesought to identify strategies for successfully implementing SCPs.METHODS: We measured SCP implementation using performance data from cancerprograms participating in the American Society of Clinical Oncology QualityOncology Practice Initiative, an oncologist-led quality assessment andimprovement program. We used semistructured interviews with cancer programemployees (eg, physicians) to identify strategies for successfully implementingSCPs by comparing approaches in cancer programs that, according to QualityOncology Practice Initiative performance indicators, developed and delivered SCPsto a relatively small proportion of eligible survivors and their follow-up careproviders (ie, low performers; n = 6 participants in five programs) withapproaches among programs with better performance (ie, moderate performers; n =15 participants in nine programs).RESULTS: Ten of 14 cancer programs developed SCPs for ≥ 50% of eligiblesurvivors; two of 14 delivered SCPs to any survivors; and eight of 14 deliveredSCPs to ≥ 25% of follow-up care providers. We found that moderate performersproactively addressed SCP requirements, leveraged requirements to improvesurvivorship care, set internal targets, automated implementation, had activeleaders and champions, and tasked appropriate employees with SCP implementation.CONCLUSION: SCP implementation remains challenging. We identified strategies forsuccessfully implementing SCPs. Future research should examine how cancerprograms have achieved these strategies; findings could contribute to anunderstanding of the changes needed to implement comprehensive survivorship care.
