J Geriatr Oncol. 2018 Jun 11. pii: S1879-4068(18)30102-4. doi:10.1016/j.jgo.2018.05.016. [Epub ahead of print]
Clinician-observed and patient-reported toxicities and their association withpoor tolerance to therapy in older patients with head and neck or lung cancertreated with curative radiotherapy.
Moon DH(1), Chera BS(2), Deal AM(3), Wang Y(3), Muss HB(3), VanderWalde NA(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, United States.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, United States; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Tennessee Health SciencesCenter/West Cancer Center, Germantown, TN, United States. Electronic address:nvanderw@westclinic.com.
OBJECTIVES: The agreement between clinician- and patient-reported toxicities andtheir association with poor tolerance to therapy were assessed in an olderpopulation receiving curative radiotherapy (RT).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients ≥ 65 years old with newly-diagnosed head and neckor lung cancer receiving curative RT ± chemotherapy were enrolled on aprospective, observational study. Agreement between clinician (CTCAEv4.02) andpatient (PRO-CTCAE, EORTC QLQ-C30) report of toxicities were assessed atbaseline, during treatment, and post-treatment. The association of clinician- andpatient-reported symptoms with poor tolerance to therapy (defined ashospitalization, >3-day treatment delay, change in treatment regimen, or death)was assessed.RESULTS: Among 45 patients, median age was 71, 60% had head and neck cancer, and47% received concurrent chemotherapy with RT. In comparing CTCAE vs PRO-CTCAE,there was good agreement at baseline except for fatigue, anorexia, and pain,where clinicians under-reported the severity. The discrepancy increased duringtreatment with clinicians reporting lower severity in ≥50% of matched pairs for4/10 symptoms assessed. At follow-up, clinicians under-reported severity in ≥50%of pairs for 7/10 symptoms. CTCAE vs EORTC QLQ-C30 mirrored these findings.Patient-reported symptoms of nausea and dysphagia at 2 weeks andclinician-observed symptoms of nausea and dysphagia at 4 weeks were associatedwith poor tolerance to therapy.CONCLUSION: Clinicians under-report toxicities during and after curative RT inolder patients with head and neck or lung cancer. Select toxicities reported bypatients early in treatment and clinicians later in treatment were associatedwith poor tolerance to cancer therapy, providing valuable complementaryinformation.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
