Conflict of interest statement: Charles M. Perou is an equity stock holder ofBioClassifier LLC and University Genomics and filed a patent on the PAM50intrinsic breast cancer subtyping assay.
J Cancer Educ. 2018 Jun 14. doi: 10.1007/s13187-018-1374-0. [Epub ahead of print]
Survivorship Care Plan Implementation in US Cancer Programs: a National Survey ofCancer Care Providers.
Birken SA(1), Raskin S(2), Zhang Y(3), Lane G(3), Zizzi A(4), Pratt-Chapman M(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 1103EMcGavran-Greenberg, 135 Dauer Drive, Campus Box 7411, Chapel Hill, NC,27599-7411, USA. birken@unc.edu.(2)L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs, VirginiaCommonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.(3)Institute for Patient-Centered Initiatives & Health Equity, The GeorgeWashington University Cancer Center, Washington, DC, USA.(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 1103EMcGavran-Greenberg, 135 Dauer Drive, Campus Box 7411, Chapel Hill, NC,27599-7411, USA.
Survivorship care plans (SCPs)-documents intended to improve care for cancersurvivors who have completed active treatment-are required, yet implementation ispoor. We sought to understand SCP implementation in cancer programs in the USAwith the objective of identifying opportunities for improvement. We recruitedcancer care providers in the USA via several cancer care networks to participatein a survey regarding SCP implementation. We used descriptive statistics toanalyze the data. Three hundred ninety-five providers from diverse cancerprograms in 47 states and Washington, DC responded to the survey. The timing ofSCP implementation varied across and within cancer programs, with approximately40% of respondents reporting developing SCPs more than 3 months after primarytreatment or adjuvant therapy completion. Nurse navigators were responsible for48-58% of each stage of SCP implementation. Processes that could have beenautomated often occurred in-person or via phone and vice versa. Respondentsreported spending more than 2 h per SCP to complete all stages of implementation,of which less than a third was reimbursed by third-party payers. We identifiedseveral opportunities for improving SCP implementation, including broadening thebase of responsibility, optimizing modes of communication, decreasing the timerequired and increasing the funding available, and limiting variation in SCPimplementation across and within cancer programs. Future work should assess theinfluence of approaches to SCP implementation on desired outcomes.
