Laryngoscope. 2018 Oct 16. doi: 10.1002/lary.27351. [Epub ahead of print]
Radiographic muscle invasion not a recurrence predictor in HPV-associatedoropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma.
Farzal Z(1), Du E(1), Yim E(2), Mazul A(3), Zevallos JP(3), Huang BY(4), HackmanTG(1).
Author information:(1)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(2)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, Washington University, St.Louis, Missouri, U.S.A.(4)Department of Radiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NorthCarolina.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether muscle invasion evident on pretreatment imagingin p16 + oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) correlates withrecurrence.STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective review.METHODS: Two-hundred and seventy-six patients with p16 + OPSCC treated at atertiary referral center from 2003 to 2015 were analyzed. All scans were reviewedby a dedicated neuroradiologist with subspecialty expertise in head and neckimaging. Radiographic evidence of muscle invasion to the genioglossus,hyoglossus, medial pterygoid, and prevertebral muscles was analyzed. Local andregional recurrence rates were compared between the muscle invasion and no muscleinvasion groups.RESULTS: One hundred and ninety patients met inclusion criteria with adequatefollow-up data and pretreatment imaging. Patients were predominantly male (87.5%male) and smokers (65.6% smokers) with a mean age of 56.7 (standard deviation:9.0 years). Most commonly invaded muscles in the muscle invasion group werehyoglossus (57.8%) and genioglossus (56.3%). There was no statisticallysignificant difference in primary site or nodal recurrence between the combinedgroup, including definite or possible muscle invasion and the group withoutmuscle invasion (P = 0.205 and P = 0.569, respectively). Additionally, nostatistically significant difference was present in recurrence-free anddisease-specific survival between the two groups at 3- and 5-year follow-up(P > 0.05).CONCLUSION: Radiographic evidence of muscle invasion does not appear to be apredictor of human papilloma virus (+) OPSCC recurrence. Additional studies areneeded to validate our findings. Level of Evidence 4. Laryngoscope, 2018.
© 2018 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.
