Support Care Cancer. 2018 Jun 6. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4276-0. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Designing for impact: identifying stakeholder-driven interventions to supportrecovery after major cancer surgery.
McMullen C(1), Nielsen M(2), Firemark A(3), Price PM(4), Nakatani D(5), TuthillJ(5), McMyn R(5), Odisho A(6), Meyers M(2), Shibata D(7), Gilbert S(8).
Author information:(1)Center for Health Research - Kaiser Permanente Northwest, 3800 N. InterstateAve, Portland, OR, 97227, USA. Carmit.McMullen@kp.org.(2)School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Center for Health Research - Kaiser Permanente Northwest, 3800 N. InterstateAve, Portland, OR, 97227, USA.(4)IDEO, San Francisco, CA, USA.(5)Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA, USA.(6)Department of Urology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.(7)Department of Surgery, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis,TN, USA.(8)Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA.
PURPOSE: Complex bladder and colorectal cancer surgeries are associated withsignificant patient morbidity, yet few resources exist to prepare patients forthe high levels of distress and complications they may experience. Afterethnographic research to identify design challenges, we held a user-centereddesign (UCD) workshop to begin to develop patient- and caregiver-centeredinterventions to support preparation for and recovery after complex cancersurgery.METHODS: Concepts that emerged from brainstorming sessions were visuallyrepresented on storyboards and rated. Highly scored concepts were furtherdeveloped in break-out prototyping sessions and then presented to the entiregroup for review in person and during subsequent webinars. We collected workshopproducts (worksheets, prototypes, and recordings) for analysis to identifyopportunities for intervention. The workshop, held in late 2014, was attended bythree colorectal/oncologic surgeons, three urologic surgeons, five ostomy nurses,one quality improvement leader, three patients, one caregiver, and threeexperienced UCD facilitators.RESULTS: Three opportunity areas were identified: (1) enhanced patient educationincluding tele-health and multi-media tools (available at hospitals/clinics oronline in any setting), (2) personalized discharge assessment and care planning,and (3) integrated symptom monitoring and educational interventions. Stakeholdersreached consensus that enhanced patient education was the most importantdirection for subsequent intervention development.CONCLUSIONS: We engaged diverse stakeholders in a participatory, UCD process andconcluded that research and practice improvement should prioritize thedevelopment of educational interventions in the pre-operative period to set thegroundwork for improving appropriate self-care during recovery from majorcolorectal and bladder cancer surgeries.
