Melanoma Res. 2018 Oct;28(5):380-389. doi: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000473.
Identification of gene expression levels in primary melanoma associated withclinically meaningful characteristics.
Gorlov I(1), Orlow I(2), Ringelberg C(1), Hernando E(3), Ernstoff MS(4), ChengC(1), Her S(5), Parker JS(6), Thompson CL(7), Gerstenblith MR(8), Berwick M(8),Amos C(9).
Author information:(1)Department of Biomedical Data Science, The Geisel School of Medicine,Dartmouth College, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon.(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering CancerCenter.(3)Department of Pathology, NYU School of Medicine, New York City.(4)Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Elm & Carlton, Buffalo, New York.(5)Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire.(6)Department of Genetics, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(7)School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.(8)Department of Internal Medicine and Dermatology, University of New Mexico,Albuquerque, New Mexico.(9)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
Factors influencing melanoma survival include sex, age, clinical stage, lymphnode involvement, as well as Breslow thickness, presence of tumor-infiltratinglymphocytes based on histological analysis of primary melanoma, mitotic rate, andulceration. Identification of genes whose expression in primary tumors isassociated with these key tumor/patient characteristics can shed light onmolecular mechanisms of melanoma survival. Here, we show results from a geneexpression analysis of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded primary melanomas withextensive clinical annotation. The Cancer Genome Atlas data on primary melanomaswere used for validation of nominally significant associations. We identifiedfive genes that were significantly associated with the presence oftumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in the joint analysis after adjustment formultiple testing: IL1R2, PPL, PLA2G3, RASAL1, and SGK2. We also identified twogenes significantly associated with melanoma metastasis to the regional lymphnodes (PIK3CG and IL2RA), and two genes significantly associated with sex (KDM5Cand KDM6A). We found that LEF1 was significantly associated with Breslowthickness and CCNA2 and UBE2T with mitosis. RAD50 was the gene most significantlyassociated with survival, with a higher level of expression associated with worsesurvival.
