Cell Rep. 2018 Oct 16;25(3):702-714.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.09.056.
Cdh1 and Pik3ca Mutations Cooperate to Induce Immune-Related Invasive LobularCarcinoma of the Breast.
An Y(1), Adams JR(2), Hollern DP(3), Zhao A(4), Chang SG(4), Gams MS(4), ChungPED(5), He X(3), Jangra R(2), Shah JS(2), Yang J(2), Beck LA(2), Raghuram N(1),Kozma KJ(1), Loch AJ(2), Wang W(2), Fan C(3), Done SJ(6), Zacksenhaus E(5),Guidos CJ(4), Perou CM(7), Egan SE(8).
Author information:(1)Program in Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center for Research and Learning,The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4, Canada; Department ofMolecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.(2)Program in Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center for Research and Learning,The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4, Canada.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Departments of Genetics and Pathology,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.(4)Program in Developmental and Stem Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center forResearch and Learning, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4,Canada; Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.(5)Division of Cell and Molecular Biology, Toronto General Research Institute,University Health Network, and Department of Medicine, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology,University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, Canada; The Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research atthe Princess Margaret Cancer Centre and The Laboratory Medicine Program,University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.(7)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Departments of Genetics and Pathology,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. Electronic address:cperou@med.unc.edu.(8)Program in Cell Biology, The Peter Gilgan Center for Research and Learning,The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON M5G-0A4, Canada; Department ofMolecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronicaddress: segan@sickkids.ca.
CDH1 and PIK3CA are the two most frequently mutated genes in invasive lobularcarcinoma (ILC) of the breast. Transcription profiling has identified molecularsubtypes for ILC, one of which, immune-related (IR), is associated with geneexpression linked to lymphocyte and macrophage infiltration. Here, we report thatdeletion of Cdh1, together with activation of Pik3ca in mammary epithelium ofgenetically modified mice, leads to formation of IR-ILC-like tumors with immunecell infiltration, as well as gene expression linked to T-regulatory (Treg) cellsignaling and activation of targetable immune checkpoint pathways. Interestingly,these tumors show enhanced Rac1- and Yap-dependent transcription and signaling,as well as sensitivity to PI3K, Rac1, and Yap inhibitors in culture. Finally,high-dimensional immunophenotyping in control mouse mammary gland and IR-ILCtumors by mass cytometry shows dramatic alterations in myeloid and lymphoidpopulations associated with immune suppression and exhaustion, highlighting thepotential for therapeutic intervention via immune checkpoint regulators.
Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
