Eur J Transl Myol. 2018 Jun 6;28(2):7590. doi: 10.4081/ejtm.2018.7590.eCollection 2018 Apr 24.
Chemotherapy-induced muscle wasting: association with NF-κB and cancer cachexia.
Damrauer JS(1)(2), Stadler ME(3)(2), Acharyya S(1)(2), Baldwin AS(4), CouchME(4), Guttridge DC(1).
Author information:(1)Human Cancer Genetics, Department of Molecular Virology, Immunology & MedicalGenetics, The Ohio State University, Biomedical Research Tower, Arthur G. JamesComprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, Ohio.(2)Equally contributing first authors.(3)Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, University of North CarolinaSchool of Medicine, Neurosciences Hospital, North Carolina.(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
A compounding feature of greater than 50% of all cancers is the high incidence ofthe cachexia syndrome, a complex metabolic disorder characterized by extremeweight loss due mainly to the gross depletion of skeletal muscle tissue. Althoughstudies into the cause of cancer cachexia has spanned over multiple decades,little is known about the effects of various cancer treatments themselves oncachexia. For example, chemotherapy agents induce side effects such as nausea andanorexia, but these symptoms do not fully account for the changes seen withcancer cachexia. In this study we examine the effects of chemotherapeuticcompounds, specifically, cisplatin in the colon-26 adenocarcinoma model of cancercachexia. We find that although cisplatin is able to reduce tumor burden asexpected, muscle wasting in mice nevertheless persists. Strikingly, cisplatinalone was seen to regulate muscle atrophy, which was independent of the commonlyimplicated ubiquitin proteasome system. Finally, we show that cisplatin is ableto induce NF-κB activity in both mouse muscles and myotube cultures, suggestingthat an additional side effect of cancer treatment is the regulation of musclewasting that may be mediated through activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway.
