Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
ACS Nano. 2018 Aug 28;12(8):7812-7825. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.8b01890. Epub 2018Jul 23.
Nanocarrier-Mediated Chemo-Immunotherapy Arrested Cancer Progression and InducedTumor Dormancy in Desmoplastic Melanoma.
Liu Q(1), Chen F(2), Hou L(3), Shen L(1), Zhang X(1), Wang D(2), Huang L(1).
Author information:(1)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics and Center forNanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy , University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill , Chapel Hill , North Carolina 27599 , UnitedStates.(2)Department of Environmental Toxicology, The Institute of Environmental andHuman Health (TIEHH) and the Center for Biotechnology & Genomics , Texas TechUniversity , Lubbock , Texas 79416 , United States.(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences , Zhengzhou University , 100 Kexue Avenue ,Zhengzhou 450001 , China.
In desmoplastic melanoma, tumor cells and tumor-associated fibroblasts are themajor dominators playing a critical role in the fibrosis morphology as well asthe immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), compromising the efficacy oftherapeutic options. To overcome this therapeutic hurdle, we developed aninnovative chemo-immunostrategy based on targeted delivery of mitoxantrone (MIT)and celastrol (CEL), two potent medicines screened and selected with the bestanticancer and antifibrosis potentials. Importantly, CEL worked in synergy withMIT to induce immunogenic tumor cell death. Here, we show that when effectivelyco-delivered to the tumor site at their optimal ratio by a TME-responsivenanocarrier, the 5:1 combination of MIT and CEL significantly triggeredimmunogenic tumor apoptosis and recovered tumor antigen recognition, thuseliciting overall antitumor immunity. Furthermore, the strong synergy benefittedthe host in reduced drug exposure and side effects. Collectively, thenanocarrier-mediated chemo-immunotherapy successfully remodeled fibrotic andimmunosuppressive TME, arrested cancer progression, and further inhibited tumormetastasis to major organs. The affected tumors remained dormant long afterdosing stopped, resulting in a prolonged progression-free survival and sustainedimmune surveillance of the host bearing desmoplastic melanoma.
