Leuk Res. 2018 Jun 7;70:106-116. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2018.06.006. [Epub aheadof print]
A systematic review of patient reported outcomes in phase II or III clinicaltrials of myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia.
Bryant AL(1), Drier SW(2), Lee S(3), Bennett AV(4).
Author information:(1)School of Nursing, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC, USA; Cancer Outcomes Research Program, Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.Electronic address: ashley_bryant@unc.edu.(2)Cancer Outcomes Research Program, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronicaddress: wjsarah@email.unc.edu.(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: sjinlee@live.unc.edu.(4)Cancer Outcomes Research Program, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department ofHealth Policy and Management, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA. Electronic address: avbenn@unc.edu.
The purpose of this systematic literature review was to identify clinical trialsof MDS and AML that included patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments, and tosummarize the symptom and other health related quality of life (HRQOL) conceptsmost frequently assessed and the PRO instruments that were used. Sixteenmanuscripts describing 14 distinct trials met all criteria (i.e., phase 2 or 3clinical trial for MDS or AML which included PRO assessment) and were publishedbetween 1996-2017. In trials evaluating anemia, PRO scores showed significantimprovement in relevant domains (e.g. fatigue, function) among patientsidentified as responders. In trials evaluating the impact of anti-cancertherapies, improvements the baseline to end of treatment were observed inphysical functioning and HRQOL, however the rates of missing data in many of thetrials was high or unreported. PRO instruments have the ability to capturechanges over time in patients' function and well-being, and PRO instruments andguidance documents are available to support the assessment of HRQOL in AML/MDSclinical trials.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
