J Virol. 2018 Sep 12;92(19). pii: e01062-18. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01062-18. Print2018 Oct 1.
Mutant Cellular AP-1 Proteins Promote Expression of a Subset of Epstein-BarrVirus Late Genes in the Absence of Lytic Viral DNA Replication.
Lyons DE(1), Yu KP(2), Vander Heiden JA(3), Heston L(2), Dittmer DP(4)(5),El-Guindy A(2), Miller G(6)(7)(8).
Author information:(1)Department of Microbial Pathogenesis, Yale University School of Medicine, NewHaven, Connecticut, USA.(2)Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,Connecticut, USA.(3)Interdepartmental Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, YaleUniversity School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(6)Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,Connecticut, USA George.Miller@Yale.edu.(7)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School ofMedicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.(8)Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven,Connecticut, USA.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) ZEBRA protein activates the EBV lytic cycle. CellularAP-1 proteins with alanine-to-serine [AP-1(A/S)] substitutions homologous toZEBRA(S186) assume some functions of EBV ZEBRA. These AP-1(A/S) mutants bindmethylated EBV DNA and activate expression of some EBV genes. Here, we compareexpression of 67 viral genes induced by ZEBRA versus expression induced byAP-1(A/S) proteins. AP-1(A/S) activated 24 genes to high levels and 15 genes tointermediate levels; activation of 28 genes by AP-1(A/S) was severely impaired.We show that AP-1(A/S) proteins are defective at stimulating viral lytic DNAreplication. The impairment of expression of many late genes compared to that ofZEBRA is likely due to the inability of AP-1(A/S) proteins to promote viral DNAreplication. However, even in the absence of detectable viral DNA replication,AP-1(A/S) proteins stimulated expression of a subgroup of late genes that encodeviral structural proteins and immune modulators. In response to ZEBRA, expressionof this subgroup of late genes was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), whichis a potent viral replication inhibitor. However, when the lytic cycle wasactivated by AP-1(A/S), PAA did not reduce expression of this subgroup of lategenes. We also provide genetic evidence, using the BMRF1 knockout bacmid, thatthese genes are true late genes in response to ZEBRA. AP-1(A/S) binds to thepromoter region of at least one of these late genes, BDLF3, encoding an immunemodulator.IMPORTANCE Mutant c-Jun and c-Fos proteins selectively activateexpression of EBV lytic genes, including a subgroup of viral late genes, in theabsence of viral DNA replication. These findings indicate that newly synthesizedviral DNA is not invariably required for viral late gene expression. While viralDNA replication may be obligatory for late gene expression driven by viraltranscription factors, it does not limit the ability of cellular transcriptionfactors to activate expression of some viral late genes. Our results show thatexpression of all late genes may not be strictly dependent on viral lytic DNAreplication. The c-Fos A151S mutation has been identified in a human cancer.c-Fos A151S in combination with wild-type c-Jun activates the EBV lytic cycle.Our data provide proof of principle that mutant cellular transcription factorscould cause aberrant regulation of viral lytic cycle gene expression and playimportant roles in EBV-associated diseases.
Copyright © 2018 American Society for Microbiology.
