J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2018 Oct 1;79(2):195-205. doi:10.1097/QAI.0000000000001778.
Cost-Effectiveness of Cervical Cancer Screening in Women Living With HIV in SouthAfrica: A Mathematical Modeling Study.
Campos NG(1), Lince-Deroche N(2), Chibwesha CJ(3)(4), Firnhaber C(4)(5), SmithJS(6), Michelow P(7)(8), Meyer-Rath G(2)(9), Jamieson L(2), Jordaan S(7), SharmaM(1)(10), Regan C(1), Sy S(1), Liu G(10), Tsu V(11), Jeronimo J(12), Kim JJ(1).
Author information:(1)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Department of Health Policy andManagement, Boston, MA.(2)Health Economics and Epidemiology Research Office, Department of InternalMedicine, School of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University ofthe Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.(3)Division of Global Women's Health, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC.(4)Clinical HIV Research Unit, Helen Joseph Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa.(5)Right to Care, Helen Joseph Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa.(6)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(7)National Health Laboratory Service, Johannesburg, South Africa.(8)Anatomical Pathology Department, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of theWitwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.(9)Department of Global Health and Development, School of Public Health, BostonUniversity, Boston, MA.(10)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.(11)PATH, Seattle, WA.(12)Global Coalition Against Cervical Cancer, Arlington, VA.
BACKGROUND: Women with HIV face an increased risk of human papillomavirus (HPV)acquisition and persistence, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, and invasivecervical cancer. Our objective was to determine the cost-effectiveness ofdifferent cervical cancer screening strategies among women with HIV in SouthAfrica.METHODS: We modified a mathematical model of HPV infection and cervical diseaseto reflect coinfection with HIV. The model was calibrated to epidemiologic datafrom HIV-infected women in South Africa. Clinical and economic data were drawnfrom in-country data sources. The model was used to project reductions in thelifetime risk of cervical cancer and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios(ICERs) of Pap and HPV DNA screening and management algorithms beginning at HIVdiagnosis, at 1-, 2-, or 3-year intervals. Strategies with an ICER below SouthAfrica's 2016 per capita gross domestic product (US$5270) were considered"cost-effective."RESULTS: HPV testing followed by treatment (test-and-treat) at 2-year intervalswas the most effective strategy that was also cost-effective, reducing lifetimecancer risk by 56.6% with an ICER of US$3010 per year of life saved. Othercost-effective strategies included Pap (referral threshold: HSIL+) at 1-, 2-, and3-year intervals, and HPV test-and-treat at 3-year intervals. Pap (ASCUS+), HPVtesting with 16/18 genotyping, and HPV testing with Pap or visual triage ofHPV-positive women were less effective and more costly than alternatives.CONCLUSIONS: Considering per capita gross domestic product as the benchmark forcost-effectiveness, HPV test-and-treat is optimal in South Africa. At lowercost-effectiveness benchmarks, Pap (HSIL+) would be optimal.
