Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2018 Nov;65(11):e27353. doi: 10.1002/pbc.27353. Epub 2018Jul 17.
Translation, psychometric validation, and baseline results of thePatient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) pediatricmeasures to assess health-related quality of life of patients with pediatriclymphoma in Malawi.
Westmoreland K(1)(2), Reeve BB(3), Amuquandoh A(1), van der Gronde T(1), ManthaluO(1), Correia H(4), Stanley C(1), Itimu S(1), Salima A(1), Chikasema M(1), WardP(1), Mpasa A(5), Wachepa S(5), Mtete I(5), Butia M(5), Chasela M(5), MtundaM(5), Wasswa P(5)(6), Martin S(5)(6), Kim NE(6), Kazembe P(5), Gopal S(1)(7)(8).
Author information:(1)Cancer Program, UNC Project-Malawi, Lilongwe, Malawi.(2)Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Department of Population Health Science, Duke University School of Medicine,Durham, North Carolina.(4)Department of Medical Social Sciences, Northwestern University Feinberg Schoolof Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.(5)Baylor College of Medicine Children's Foundation Malawi, Lilongwe, Malawi.(6)Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, Texas Children'sHospital, Houston, Texas.(7)Department of Medicine, Divisions of Hematology-Oncology & InfectiousDiseases, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(8)Department of Medicine, University of Malawi, Blantyre, Malawi.
INTRODUCTION: Internationally validated tools to measure patient-reportedhealth-related quality of life (HRQoL) are available, but efforts to translateand culturally validate such tools in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) are scarce,particularly among children.METHODS: The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 25-itempediatric short form (PROMIS-25) assesses six HRQoL domains-mobility, anxiety,depression, fatigue, peer relationships, and pain interference-by asking fourquestions per domain. There is a single-item pain intensity item. The PROMIS-25was translated into Chichewa and validated for use in Malawi using mixedqualitative and quantitative methods. The validity and reliability of thePROMIS-25 was assessed.RESULTS: Fifty-four pediatric patients with lymphoma completed the PROMIS-25.Structural validity was supported by interitem correlations and principalcomponent analysis. Reliability of each scale was satisfactory (rangealpha = 0.71-0.93). Known group validity testing showed that anemic children hadworse fatigue (P = 0.016) and children with poor performance status had worsemobility (P < 0.001) and pain interference (P = 0.005). Compared to children withcancer in the United States, children from Malawi reported lower levels ofmobility, higher anxiety, higher depressive symptoms, higher fatigue, bettersatisfaction with peer relationships, and higher pain interference.CONCLUSION: Translation and cultural validation of the PROMIS-25 into Chichewafor Malawi was successful. Baseline HRQoL for patients with pediatric lymphoma inMalawi is poor for all domains except peer relationships. This emphasizes anurgent need to address HRQoL among children undergoing cancer treatment in SSAusing self-reported instruments validated within the local context.
© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
