J Vis Exp. 2018 Jul 16;(137). doi: 10.3791/57452.
Image-Guided Resection of Glioblastoma and Intracranial Implantation ofTherapeutic Stem Cell-seeded Scaffolds.
Sheets KT(1), Bagó JR(1), Paulk IL(1), Hingtgen SD(2).
Author information:(1)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics, UNC EshelmanSchool of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.(2)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics, UNC EshelmanSchool of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; LinebergerComprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;hingtgen@email.unc.edu.
Glioblastoma (GBM), the most common and aggressive primary brain cancer, carriesa life expectancy of 12-15 months. The short life expectancy is due in part tothe inability of the current treatment, consisting of surgical resection followedby radiation and chemotherapy, to eliminate invasive tumor foci. Treatment ofthese foci may be improved with tumoricidal human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs).MSCs exhibit potent tumor tropism and can be engineered to express therapeuticproteins that kill tumor cells. Advancements in preclinical models indicate thatsurgical resection induces premature MSC loss and reduces therapeutic efficacy.Efficacy of MSC treatment can be improved by seeding MSCs on a biodegradablepoly(lactic acid) (PLA) scaffold. MSC delivery into the surgical resection cavityon a PLA scaffold restores cell retention, persistence, and tumor killing. Tostudy the effects of MSC-seeded PLA implantation on GBM, an accurate preclinicalmodel is needed. Here we provide a preclinical surgical protocol for image-guidedtumor resection of GBM in immune-deficient mice followed by MSC-seeded scaffoldimplantation. MSCs are engineered with lentiviral constructs to constitutivelyexpress and secrete therapeutic TNFα-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) aswell as green fluorescent protein (GFP) to allow fluorescent tracking. Similarly,the U87 tumor cells are engineered to express mCherry and firefly luciferase,providing dual fluorescent/luminescent tracking. While currently used forinvestigating stem cell mediated delivery of therapeutics, this protocol could bemodified to investigate the impact of surgical resection on other GBMinterventions.
