EMBO J. 2018 Aug 15;37(16). pii: e98701. doi: 10.15252/embj.201798701. Epub 2018Jul 4.
Cezanne/OTUD7B is a cell cycle-regulated deubiquitinase that antagonizes thedegradation of APC/C substrates.
Bonacci T(1), Suzuki A(2), Grant GD(1)(3), Stanley N(4), Cook JG(1)(3), BrownNG(1)(5), Emanuele MJ(6)(5).
Author information:(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(2)Department of Biology, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, The University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(4)Curriculum in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)Department of Pharmacology, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(6)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA emanuele@email.unc.edu.
The anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase andkey regulator of cell cycle progression. Since APC/C promotes the degradation ofmitotic cyclins, it controls cell cycle-dependent oscillations incyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) activity. Both CDKs and APC/C control a largenumber of substrates and are regulated by analogous mechanisms, includingcofactor-dependent activation. However, whereas substrate dephosphorylation isknown to counteract CDK, it remains largely unknown whether deubiquitinatingenzymes (DUBs) antagonize APC/C substrate ubiquitination during mitosis. Here, wedemonstrate that Cezanne/OTUD7B is a cell cycle-regulated DUB that opposes theubiquitination of APC/C targets. Cezanne is remarkably specific for K11-linkedubiquitin chains, which are formed by APC/C in mitosis. Accordingly, Cezannebinds established APC/C substrates and reverses their APC/C-mediatedubiquitination. Cezanne depletion accelerates APC/C substrate degradation andcauses errors in mitotic progression and formation of micronuclei. These datahighlight the importance of tempered APC/C substrate destruction in maintainingchromosome stability. Furthermore, Cezanne is recurrently amplified andoverexpressed in numerous malignancies, suggesting a potential role in genomemaintenance and cancer cell proliferation.
© 2018 The Authors.
