JMIR Res Protoc. 2018 Jul 25;7(7):e10429. doi: 10.2196/10429.
Patient Preferences and Willingness to Pay for Cervical Cancer Prevention inZambia: Protocol for a Multi-Cohort Discrete Choice Experiment.
Subramanian S(1), Kaganova Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Hoover S(1), Nyambe N(2), PinderL(3), Chibwesha C(4), Kapambwe S(5), Parham G(6).
Author information:(1)RTI International, Waltham, MA, United States.(2)University of North Carolina, Lusaka, Zambia.(3)University Teaching Hospital, Lusaka, Zambia.(4)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.(5)Ministry of Health, Zambia, Zambia.(6)University of Zambia, Lusaka, Zambia.
BACKGROUND: Although most countries in southern Africa have cervical cancerscreening programs, these programs generally fail to reach a significant majorityof women because they are often implemented as pilot or research projects, andthis limits their scope and ability to scale up screening. Some countries haveplanned larger-scale programs, but these have either never been implemented orhave not been successfully scaled up. Most of the global burden of cervicalcancer is experienced in countries with limited resources, and mortality fromcervical cancer is the most common cause of cancer-related deaths among women inSub-Saharan Africa.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to learn about preferences for cervicalcancer screening in Zambia, to identify barriers and facilitators for screeninguptake, and to evaluate willingness to pay for screening services to support thescaling up of cervical cancer screening programs.METHODS: We will conduct a discrete choice experiment by interviewing women andmen and asking them to choose among constructed scenarios with varyingcombinations of attributes relevant to cervical cancer screening. To inform thediscrete choice experiment, we will conduct focus groups and interviews aboutgeneral knowledge and attitudes about cervical screening, perception about theavailability of screening, stigma associated with cancer and HIV, and payment forhealth care services. For the discrete choice experiment, we will have a maximumdesign of 120 choice sets divided into 15 sets of 8 tasks each with a sample sizeof 320-400 respondents. We will use a hierarchical Bayesian estimation procedureto assess attributes at the following two levels: group and individual levels.RESULTS: The model will generate preferences for attributes to assess the mostimportant features and allow for the assessment of differences among cohorts. Wewill conduct policy simulations reflecting potential changes in the attributes ofthe screening facilities and calculate the projected changes in preference forchoosing to undergo cervical cancer screening. The findings from the discretechoice experiment will be supplemented with interviews, focus groups, and patientsurveys to ensure a comprehensive and context-based interpretation of theresults.CONCLUSIONS: Because willingness to pay for cervical cancer screening has notbeen previously assessed, this will be a unique and important contribution to theliterature. This study will take into account the high HIV prevalence inSub-Saharan Africa and prevailing gender attitudes to identify an optimal packageof interventions to reduce cervical cancer incidence. This simulation of women'sdecisions (and men's support) to undergo screening will lay the foundation forunderstanding the stated preferences and willingness to pay to help design futurescreening programs.REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER: RR1-10.2196/10429.
©Sujha Subramanian, Yevgeniya Kaganova, Yuying Zhang, Sonja Hoover, NamakauNyambe, Leeya Pinder, Carla Chibwesha, Sharon Kapambwe, Groesbeck Parham.Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols(http://www.researchprotocols.org), 25.07.2018.
