J Clin Oncol. 2018 Jul 1;36(19):1949-1956. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2017.75.0158. Epub2018 May 9.
Multicenter Prospective Phase II Trial of Neoadjuvant Dose-Dense Gemcitabine PlusCisplatin in Patients With Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer.
Iyer G(1), Balar AV(1), Milowsky MI(1), Bochner BH(1), Dalbagni G(1), DonatSM(1), Herr HW(1), Huang WC(1), Taneja SS(1), Woods M(1), Ostrovnaya I(1),Al-Ahmadie H(1), Arcila ME(1), Riches JC(1), Meier A(1), Bourque C(1), ShadyM(1), Won H(1), Rose TL(1), Kim WY(1), Kania BE(1), Boyd ME(1), Cipolla CK(1),Regazzi AM(1), Delbeau D(1), McCoy AS(1), Vargas HA(1), Berger MF(1), SolitDB(1), Rosenberg JE(1), Bajorin DF(1).
Author information:(1)Gopa Iyer, Bernard H. Bochner, Guido Dalbagni, S. Machele Donat, Harry W.Herr, Irina Ostrovnaya, Hikmat Al-Ahmadie, Maria E. Arcila, Jamie C. Riches,Andreas Meier, Caitlin Bourque, Maha Shady, Helen Won, Brooke E. Kania, Mariel E.Boyd, Catharine K. Cipolla, Ashley M. Regazzi, Asia S. McCoy, Hebert AlbertoVargas, Michael F. Berger, David B. Solit, Jonathan E. Rosenberg, and Dean F.Bajorin, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; Gopa Iyer, Bernard H. Bochner,Guido Dalbagni, S. Machele Donat, Harry W. Herr, Hikmat Al-Ahmadie, David B.Solit, and Dean F. Bajorin, Weill Cornell Medical College; Arjun V. Balar,William C. Huang, Samir S. Taneja, and Daniela Delbeau, New York UniversityLangone Medical Center, New York, NY; and Matthew I. Milowsky, Michael Woods,Tracy L. Rose, and William Y. Kim, University of North Carolina LinebergerComprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, NC.
Purpose Neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by radical cystectomy (RC) is astandard of care for the management of muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC).Dose-dense cisplatin-based regimens have yielded favorable outcomes compared withstandard-dose chemotherapy, yet the optimal neoadjuvant regimen remainsundefined. We assessed the efficacy and tolerability of six cycles of neoadjuvantdose-dense gemcitabine and cisplatin (ddGC) in patients with MIBC. Patients andMethods In this prospective, multicenter phase II study, patients received ddGC(gemcitabine 2,500 mg/m2 on day 1 and cisplatin 35 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2) every 2weeks for 6 cycles followed by RC. The primary end point was pathologicdownstaging to non-muscle-invasive disease (< pT2N0). Patients who did notundergo RC were deemed nonresponders. Pretreatment tumors underwentnext-generation sequencing to identify predictors of chemosensitivity. ResultsForty-nine patients were enrolled from three institutions. The primary end pointwas met, with 57% of 46 evaluable patients downstaged to < pT2N0. Pathologicresponse correlated with improved recurrence-free survival and overall survival.Nineteen patients (39%) required toxicity-related dose modifications. Sixty-sevenpercent of patients completed all six planned cycles. No patient failed toundergo RC as a result of chemotherapy-associated toxicities. The most frequenttreatment-related toxicity was anemia (12%; grade 3). The presence of a presumeddeleterious DNA damage response (DDR) gene alteration was associated withchemosensitivity (positive predictive value for < pT2N0 [89%]). No patient with adeleterious DDR gene alteration has experienced recurrence at a median follow-upof 2 years. Conclusion Six cycles of ddGC is an active, well-toleratedneoadjuvant regimen for the treatment of patients with MIBC. The presence of aputative deleterious DDR gene alteration in pretreatment tumor tissue stronglypredicted for chemosensitivity, durable response, and superior long-termsurvival.
