Eur J Pharm Sci. 2018 Jul 30;120:20-29. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2018.04.037. Epub2018 Apr 25.
Effect of β-elemene on the kinetics of intracellular transport of d-luciferinpotassium salt (ABC substrate) in doxorubicin-resistant breast cancer cells andthe associated molecular mechanism.
Tang CY(1), Zhu LX(2), Yu JD(1), Chen Z(1), Gu MC(1), Mu CF(1), Liu Q(3), XiongY(4).
Author information:(1)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University,Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310053, China.(2)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University,Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310053, China; Zhejiang Institute for Food and Drug Control,Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310004, China.(3)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics and Center forNanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill 27599, NC, USA.(4)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University,Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310053, China. Electronic address: xiongyang@zcmu.edu.cn.
In order to explore the mechanism of the reversing multidrug resistance (MDR)phenotypes by β-elemene (β-ELE) in doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant breast cancercells (MCF-7/DOX), both the functionality and quantity of the ABC transporters inMCF-7/DOX were studied. Bioluminescence imaging (BLI) was used to study theefflux of d-luciferin potassium salt, the substrate of ATP-binding cassettetransporters (ABC transporters), in MCF-7/DOX cells treated by β-ELE. At the sametime three major ABC transport proteins and genes-related MDR, P-glycoprotein(P-gp, ABCB1) and multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (MRP, ABCC1) as wellas breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP, ABCG2) were analyzed by q-PCR andWestern blot. To investigate the efflux functionality of ABC transporters,MCF-7/DOXFluc cell line with stably-overexpressed luciferase was established. BLIwas then used to real-time monitor the efflux kinetics of d-luciferin potassiumsalt before and after MCF-7/DOXFluc cells being treated with β-ELE or not. Theresults showed that the efflux of d-luciferin potassium salt from MCF-7/DOXFlucwas lessened when pretreated with β-ELE, which means that β-ELE may dampen thefunctionality of ABC transporters, thus decrease the efflux of d-fluoresceinpotassium or other chemotherapies which also serve as the substrates of ABCtransporters. As the effect of β-ELE on the expression of ABC transporters, theresults of q-PCR and Western blot showed that gene and protein expression of ABCtransporters such as P-gp, MRP, and BCRP were down-regulated after the treatmentof β-ELE. To verify the efficacy of β-ELE on reversing MDR, MCF-7/DOX cells weretreated with the combination of DOX and β-ELE. MTT assay showed that β-ELEincreased the inhibitory effect of DOX on the proliferation of MCF-7/DOX, and theIC50 of the combination group was much lower than that of the single DOX or β-ELEtreatment. In all, β-ELE may reverse MDR through the substrates of ABCtransporters by two ways, to lessen the ABC protein efflux by weakening theirfunctionality, or to reduce the quantity of ABC gene and protein expression.
Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.
