Hum Mutat. 2018 Nov;39(11):1553-1568. doi: 10.1002/humu.23650.
Specifications of the ACMG/AMP variant curation guidelines for the analysis ofgermline CDH1 sequence variants.
Lee K(1), Krempely K(2), Roberts ME(3), Anderson MJ(4), Carneiro F(5), ChaoE(2)(6), Dixon K(7), Figueiredo J(5), Ghosh R(8), Huntsman D(7), Kaurah P(7),Kesserwan C(9), Landrith T(2), Li S(2), Mensenkamp AR(10), Oliveira C(5), PardoC(4), Pesaran T(2), Richardson M(7), Slavin TP(11), Spurdle AB(12), Trapp M(1),Witkowski L(13), Yi CS(2), Zhang L(14), Plon SE(8), Schrader KA(7), Karam R(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, North Carolina.(2)Ambry Genetics, Aliso Viejo, California.(3)GeneDx, Gaithersburg, Maryland.(4)Invitae Corporation, San Francisco, California.(5)i3S, Istituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde & Ipatimup, Institute ofMolecular Pathology and Immunology of the University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.(6)University of California Irvine, Irvine, California.(7)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.(8)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.(9)St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee.(10)Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.(11)Department of Medical Oncology and Therapeutics Research, City of Hope,Duarte, California.(12)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, Australia.(13)Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, Partners Healthcare Personalized Medicine,Cambridge, Massachusetts.(14)Memorial Sloan Kettering, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York,New York.
The variant curation guidelines published in 2015 by the American College ofMedical Genetics and Genomics and the Association for Molecular Pathology(ACMG/AMP) provided the genetics community with a framework to assess variantpathogenicity; however, these rules are not gene specific. Germline pathogenicvariants in the CDH1 gene cause hereditary diffuse gastric cancer and lobularbreast cancer, a clinically challenging cancer predisposition syndrome that oftenrequires a multidisciplinary team of experts to be properly managed. Given thischallenge, the Clinical Genome Resource (ClinGen) Hereditary Cancer Domainprioritized the development of the CDH1 variant curation expert panel (VCEP) todevelop and implement rules for CDH1 variant classifications. Here, we describethe CDH1 specifications of the ACMG/AMP guidelines, which were developed andvalidated after a systematic evaluation of variants obtained from a cohort ofclinical laboratory data encompassing ∼827,000 CDH1 sequenced alleles. Comparingpreviously reported germline variants that were classified using the 2015ACMG/AMP guidelines to the CDH1 VCEP recommendations resulted in reduced variantsof uncertain significance and facilitated resolution of variants with conflictedassertions in ClinVar. The ClinGen CDH1 VCEP recommends the use of theseCDH1-specific guidelines for the assessment and classification of variantsidentified in this clinically actionable gene.
© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
