

33. Hum Mutat. 2018 Nov;39(11):1542-1552. doi: 10.1002/humu.23640.

Integrating somatic variant data and biomarkers for germline variant
classification in cancer predisposition genes.

Walsh MF(1), Ritter DI(2), Kesserwan C(3), Sonkin D(4), Chakravarty D(1), Chao
E(5), Ghosh R(2), Kemel Y(1), Wu G(3), Lee K(6), Kulkarni S(2), Hedges D(3),
Mandelker D(1), Ceyhan-Birsoy O(1), Luo M(7), Drazer M(8), Zhang L(1), Offit
K(1), Plon SE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York City, New York, USA.
(2)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(3)St. Jude Children's Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
(4)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(5)University of California, Irvine, California, USA.
(6)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(7)Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(8)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

In its landmark paper about Standards and Guidelines for the Interpretation of
Sequence Variants, the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG), 
and Association for Molecular Pathology (AMP) did not address how to use tumor
data when assessing the pathogenicity of germline variants. The Clinical Genome
Resource (ClinGen) established a multidisciplinary working group, the
Germline/Somatic Variant Subcommittee (GSVS) with this focus. The GSVS
implemented a survey to determine current practices of integrating somatic data
when classifying germline variants in cancer predisposition genes. The GSVS then 
reviewed and analyzed available resources of relevant somatic data, and performed
integrative germline variant curation exercises. The committee determined that
somatic hotspots could be systematically integrated into moderate evidence of
pathogenicity (PM1). Tumor RNA sequencing data showing altered splicing may be
considered as strong evidence in support of germline pathogenicity (PVS1) and
tumor phenotypic features such as mutational signatures be considered supporting 
evidence of pathogenicity (PP4). However, at present, somatic data such as focal 
loss of heterozygosity and mutations occurring on the alternative allele are not 
recommended to be systematically integrated, instead, incorporation of this type 
of data should take place under the advisement of multidisciplinary cancer center
tumor-normal sequencing boards.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.23640 
PMID: 30311369 
