Nurse Res. 2018 Jun 7;26(1):8-12. doi: 10.7748/nr.2018.e1569. Epub 2018 May 8.
Recruiting and engaging African-American men in health research.
Randolph S(1), Coakley T(2), Shears J(3).
Author information:(1)Duke University School of Nursing, Durham, North Carolina, United States.(2)University of North Carolina at Greensboro, North Carolina, United States.(3)North Carolina A&T State University/University of North Carolina atGreensboro, North Carolina, United States.
BACKGROUND: Improving the health of black and minority ethnic (BME) men in the UScontinues to be a public health priority. Compared with men of other races andethnicities, African-American men have higher rates of mortality and morbidityfrom chronic illness and diseases including cancer, heart disease, prostatecancer, diabetes and HIV/AIDS. One way to address these disparities is to includeAfrican-American men in health research, to elicit their perspectives on healthrisks and protective factors. These can then inform interventions aimed atreducing health disparities. However, challenges remain in recruiting andengaging African-American men in health research.AIM: To provide strategies for recruiting African-American men in healthresearch, using as an exemplar a qualitative study of fathers' perspectives ofsexual health promotion with young African-American males.DISCUSSION: Efforts are needed to increase the representation of African-Americanmen in health research. Ensuring that researchers are aware of the cultural,social and environmental factors related to decisions to participate in researchcan lead to effective methods to recruit and engage them.CONCLUSION: There are several essential strategies for increasingAfrican-American men's participation in health research: ensuring the researchteam is culturally and gender-sensitive; recruiting in trusted environments;using respected gatekeepers; developing trust with participants; and beingtransparent.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Implementing strategies to include African-Americanmen in health research has the potential to improve health disparities in the US.
©2018 RCN Publishing Company Ltd. All rights reserved. Not to be copied,transmitted or recorded in any way, in whole or part, without prior permission ofthe publishers.
