Cancer. 2018 Aug 1;124(15):3249-3256. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31540. Epub 2018 May 24.
Association between patient-reported hearing and visual impairments andfunctional, psychological, and cognitive status among older adults with cancer.
Soto-Perez-de-Celis E(1)(2), Sun CL(1), Tew WP(3), Mohile SG(4), Gajra A(5),Klepin HD(6), Owusu C(7), Gross CP(8), Muss HB(9), Lichtman SM(3), ChapmanAE(10), Cohen HJ(11), Dale W(12), Kim H(1), Fernandes S(1), Katheria V(1), HurriaA(1).
Author information:(1)Cancer and Aging Research Program, City of Hope, Duarte, California.(2)Department of Geriatrics, Salvador Zubiran National Institute of MedicalScience and Nutrition, Mexico City, Mexico.(3)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NewYork.(4)Department of Medicine, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NewYork.(5)ICON Clinical Research, North Wales, Pennsylvania.(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest School of Medicine,Winston-Salem, North Carolina.(7)Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven,Connecticut.(9)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(10)Jefferson Senior Adult Oncology Center, Thomas Jefferson University,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.(11)Center for the Study of Aging & Human Development, Duke University MedicalCenter, Durham, North Carolina.(12)Department of Supportive Care Medicine, City of Hope, Duarte, California.
BACKGROUND: Hearing and visual impairments are common among community-dwellingolder adults, and are associated with psychological, functional, and cognitivedeficits. However, to the authors' knowledge, little is known regarding theirprevalence among older patients with cancer.METHODS: The current study was a secondary analysis combining 2 prospectivecohorts of adults aged ≥65 years with solid tumors who were receivingchemotherapy. The authors assessed the association between patient-reportedhearing and/or visual impairment (defined as fair/poor grading by self-report)and physical function, instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), anxiety,depression, and cognition. Descriptive analyses were conducted to summarizepatient and treatment characteristics. One-way analysis of variance andchi-square tests were conducted as appropriate to examine differences betweenpatients with and without sensory impairments. Logistic regression was used toanalyze associations between sensory impairments and outcomes.RESULTS: Among 750 patients with a median age of 72 years who had solid tumors(29% with breast/gynecological tumors, 28% with lung tumors, and 27% withgastrointestinal tumors), approximately 18% reported hearing impairment alone,11% reported visual impairment alone, and 7% reported dual sensory impairment.Hearing impairment was associated with IADL dependence (odds ratio [OR], 1.9),depression (OR, 1.6), and anxiety (OR, 1.6). Visual impairment was associatedwith IADL dependence (OR, 1.9), poor physical function (OR, 1.9), and depression(OR, 2.5). Dual impairment was associated with IADL dependence (OR, 2.8), anxiety(OR, 2.3), depression (OR, 2.5), and cognitive impairment (OR, 3.2).CONCLUSIONS: Sensory impairment is common among older adults with cancer.Patients with sensory impairment are more likely to have functional,psychological, and cognitive deficits. Interventions aimed at improving thevision and hearing of older adults with cancer should be studied. Cancer 2018. ©2018 American Cancer Society.
© 2018 American Cancer Society.
