Am J Prev Med. 2018 Jun;54(6):776-785. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2018.02.018. Epub2018 Apr 12.
Faith, Activity, and Nutrition Randomized Dissemination and Implementation Study:Countywide Adoption, Reach, and Effectiveness.
Wilcox S(1), Saunders RP(2), Kaczynski AT(2), Forthofer M(3), Sharpe PA(4),Goodwin C(5), Condrasky M(6), Kennedy VL Sr(5), Jake-Schoffman DE(7), KinnardD(4), Hutto B(4).
Author information:(1)Prevention Research Center, Arnold School of Public Health, University ofSouth Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina; Department of Exercise Science, ArnoldSchool of Public Health, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina.Electronic address: wilcoxs@mailbox.sc.edu.(2)Prevention Research Center, Arnold School of Public Health, University ofSouth Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina; Department of Health Promotion,Education, and Behavior, Arnold School of Public Health, University of SouthCarolina, Columbia, South Carolina.(3)Department of Public Health Sciences, College of Health and Human Services,University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Charlotte, North Carolina.(4)Prevention Research Center, Arnold School of Public Health, University ofSouth Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina.(5)Fairfield Behavioral Health Services, Winnsboro, South Carolina.(6)Department of Food, Nutrition, and Packaging Sciences, Clemson University,Clemson, South Carolina.(7)Division of Preventive and Behavioral Medicine, University of MassachusettsMedical School, Worcester, Massachusetts.
INTRODUCTION: Faith-based organizations can contribute to improving populationhealth, but few dissemination and implementation studies exist. This paperreports countywide adoption, reach, and effectiveness from the Faith, Activity,and Nutrition dissemination and implementation study.DESIGN: This was a group-randomized trial. Data were collected in 2016.Statistical analyses were conducted in 2017.SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Churches in a rural, medically underserved county in SouthCarolina were invited to enroll, and attendees of enrolled churches were invitedto complete questionnaires (n=1,308 participated).INTERVENTION: Churches (n=59) were randomized to an intervention or control(delayed intervention) condition. Church committees attended training focused oncreating opportunities, setting guidelines/policies, sharing messages, andengaging pastors for physical activity (PA) and healthy eating (HE). Churchesalso received 12 months of telephone-based technical assistance. Community healthadvisors provided the training and technical assistance.MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURES: The Reach, Efficacy/Effectiveness, Adoption,Implementation, Maintenance (RE-AIM) framework guided measurement of adoption andreach. To assess effectiveness, church attendees completed post-test onlyquestionnaires of perceptions of church environment, PA and fruit and vegetable(FV) self-efficacy, FV intake, and PA. Regression models controlled for churchclustering and predominant race of congregation, as well as member age, gender,education, and self-reported cancer diagnosis.RESULTS: Church adoption was 42% (55/132). Estimated reach was 3,527,representing 42% of regular church attendees and 15% of county residents.Intervention church attendees reported greater church-level PA opportunities, PAand HE messages, and PA and HE pastor support (p<0.0001), but not FVopportunities (p=0.07). PA self-efficacy (p=0.07) and FV self-efficacy (p=0.21)were not significantly higher in attendees of intervention versus controlchurches. The proportion of inactive attendees was lower in intervention versuscontrol churches (p=0.02). The proportion meeting FV (p=0.27) and PA guidelines(p=0.32) did not differ by group.CONCLUSIONS: This innovative dissemination and implementation study had highadoption and reach with favorable environmental impacts, positioning it forbroader dissemination.TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study is registered at www.clinicaltrials.govNCT02868866.
Copyright © 2018 American Journal of Preventive Medicine. Published by ElsevierInc. All rights reserved.
