Sex Transm Dis. 2018 Oct;45(10):666-672. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0000000000000857.
Epstein-Barr Virus, High-Risk Human Papillomavirus and Abnormal Cervical Cytologyin a Prospective Cohort of African Female Sex Workers.
Cameron JE, Rositch AF(1), Vielot NA(2), Mugo NR(3), Kwatampora JKL, Waweru W,Gilliland AE(4), Hagensee ME, Smith JS.
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health,Baltimore, MD.(2)Department of Family Medicine, University of North Carolina School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, NC.(3)Kenya Medical Research Institute.(4)From the Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Parasitology, and.
BACKGROUND: High-oncogenic-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) is necessary,although insufficient, to promote cervical cancer. Like HPV, Epstein-Barr virus(EBV) is a common pathogen with the capacity to promote epithelial neoplasms. Weexamined the association between cervical EBV, hrHPV, and cytology in female sexworkers in Nairobi, Kenya.METHODS: Women (n = 332) with known cervical cytology and hrHPV mRNA results wereevaluated for cervical EBV DNA by conventional polymerase chain reaction.Prevalence ratios (PRs) were calculated to assess the relationships between EBV,hrHPV, and cervical cytology. Prospective analyses used risk ratios andtime-to-event analyses to determine the association of EBV with hrHPV clearanceand with abnormal cytology outcomes.RESULTS: Baseline prevalence of hrHPV and EBV was 29% and 19%, respectively.Higher EBV prevalence was found among women with older age, HIV, hrHPV, abnormalcytology, Mycoplasma genitalium infection, smoking habits, younger age at sexualdebut, and less frequent condom use. At baseline, women with EBV had a higherprevalence of hrHPV infection than did EBV-negative women (52% vs. 24%;HIV-adjusted PR [95% confidence interval], 1.8 [1.3-2.6]). Epstein-Barrvirus-positive women had a higher prevalence than did EBV-negative women ofhigh-grade precancer (15% vs. 2%) and abnormal cytology (37% vs. 15%), althoughHIV- and hrHPV-adjusted associations were not significant (high-grade precancer:PR, 2.0 [0.7-5.9]; abnormal cytology: PR, 1.4 [0.9-2.2]). In prospectiveanalyses, a marginal association was observed between baseline EBV detection anddelayed hrHPV clearance.CONCLUSIONS: Our data support a possible role for EBV as a high-risk marker orcofactor for HPV-mediated cervical cancer development.
