Biomacromolecules. 2018 Jun 11;19(6):2308-2319. doi: 10.1021/acs.biomac.8b00440.Epub 2018 May 17.
Enzyme-Responsive Charge-Reversal Polymer-Mediated Effective Gene Therapy forIntraperitoneal Tumors.
Qiu N(1)(2), Gao J(1), Liu Q(3), Wang J(2), Shen Y(2).
Author information:(1)Institute of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences , ZhejiangUniversity , Hangzhou 310058 , China.(2)Center for Bionanoengineering and Key Laboratory of Biomass ChemicalEngineering of the Ministry of Education, College of Chemical and BiologicalEngineering , Zhejiang University , Hangzhou 310027 , China.(3)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics and Center forNanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy , University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill , Chapel Hill , North Carolina 27599 , UnitedStates.
Gene therapy has demonstrated effectiveness in many genetic diseases, asevidenced by recent clinical applications. Viral vectors have been extensivelytested in clinical gene-therapy trials, but nonviral vectors such as cationicpolymers or lipids are much less used due to their lower gene-transfectionefficiencies. However, the advantages of nonviral vectors, such as easilytailored structures, nonimmunogenetics, and relatively low cost, still drivegreat efforts to improve their transfection efficiencies. A reverse question asksif nonviral vectors with current gene transfection efficiency can findapplication niches. Herein, we synthesized a cationic polymer, poly{N-[2-(acryloyloxy)ethyl]- N-[ p-acetyloxyphenyl]- N, N-diethylammonium chloride}(PQDEA), as a gene-delivery carrier and compared it side by side withchemotherapy drugs for cancer treatment. PQDEA is rapidly hydrolyzed byintracellular esterases into anionic poly(acrylic acid) to give low cytotoxicityand fast release of DNA for expression. PQDEA formed stable complexes with DNA(PQDEA/DNA polyplexes), which were further coated with a lipid layer to makeserum-stable lipidic polyplexes, LPQDEA/DNAs, for in vivo use. In anintraperitoneal tumor xenograft model mimicking late-stage metastatic cervicalcancer, the LPQDEA/DNA vector with TRAIL suicide gene exerted strong tumorinhibition as effective as paclitaxel, the first-line anticancer drug, but gavemuch less tumor relapse and much longer survival than the clinical chemotherapydrugs, irinotecan and paclitaxel. Equally important, the gene therapy showed muchfewer adverse effects than the chemotherapy drugs. This work shows that nonviralvectors with current transfection efficiencies may produce therapeutic advantagesand may be safe and worthy of clinical translation in, for example,intraperitoneal cancer therapy.
