Eur Urol. 2018 Sep;74(3):294-306. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2018.04.029. Epub 2018May 10.
Multiparametric Magnetic Resonance Imaging for Bladder Cancer: Development ofVI-RADS (Vesical Imaging-Reporting And Data System).
Panebianco V(1), Narumi Y(2), Altun E(3), Bochner BH(4), Efstathiou JA(5), HafeezS(6), Huddart R(6), Kennish S(7), Lerner S(8), Montironi R(9), Muglia VF(10),Salomon G(11), Thomas S(12), Vargas HA(13), Witjes JA(14), Takeuchi M(15),Barentsz J(16), Catto JWF(17).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiological Sciences, Oncology and Pathology, SapienzaUniversity of Rome, Italy. Electronic address: valeria.panebianco@uniroma1.it.(2)Department of Radiology, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Osaka, Japan.(3)Department of Radiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(4)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY,USA.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, HarvardMedical School, Boston, MA, USA.(6)The Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, Surrey, UK; The Royal Marsden NHSFoundation Trust, Sutton, Surrey, UK.(7)Department of Radiology, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Sheffield,UK.(8)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.(9)Section of Pathological Anatomy, Polytechnic University of the Marche Region,School of Medicine, United Hospitals, Ancona, Italy.(10)Imaging Division, Ribeirao Preto Medical School, University of Sao Paulo,Ribeirao Preto, Brazil.(11)Martini Clinic, University Clinic Hamburg Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.(12)Department of Radiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.(13)Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York,NY, USA.(14)Department of Urology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands.(15)Department of Radiology, Radiolonet Tokai, Nagoya, Japan.(16)Department of Radiology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands.(17)Academic Urology Unit, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
CONTEXT: Management of bladder cancer (BC) is primarily driven by stage, grade,and biological potential. Knowledge of each is derived using clinical,histopathological, and radiological investigations. This multimodal approachreduces the risk of error from one particular test, but may present a stagingdilemma when results conflict. Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI)may improve patient care through imaging of the bladder with better resolution ofthe tissue planes than computed tomography and without radiation exposure.OBJECTIVE: To define a standardized approach to imaging and reporting mpMRI forBC, by developing a VI-RADS score.EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: We created VI-RADS (Vesical Imaging-Reporting And DataSystem) through consensus using existing literature.EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: We describe standard imaging protocols and reporting criteria(including size, location, multiplicity, and morphology) for bladder mpMRI. Wepropose a five-point VI-RADS score, derived using T2-weighted MRI,diffusion-weighted imaging, and dynamic contrast enhancement, which suggests therisks of muscle invasion. We include sample images used to understand VI-RADS.CONCLUSIONS: We hope that VI-RADS will standardize reporting, facilitatecomparisons between patients, and in future years, will be tested and refined ifnecessary. While we do not advocate mpMRI for all patients with BC, this imagingmay compliment pathology or reduce radiation-based imaging. Bladder mpMRI may bemost useful in patients with non-muscle-invasive cancers, in expediting radicaltreatment or for determining response to bladder-sparing approaches.PATIENT SUMMARY: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans for bladder cancer arebecoming more common and may provide accurate information that helps improvepatient care. Here, we describe a standardized reporting criterion for bladderMRI. This should improve communication between doctors and allow bettercomparisons between patients.
Copyright © 2018 European Association of Urology. All rights reserved.
