Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2018 Jul;28(6):1077-1084. doi:10.1097/IGC.0000000000001271.
Economic Analysis of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Versus Primary Debulking Surgeryfor Advanced Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Using an Aggressive Surgical Paradigm.
Cole AL(1), Barber EL(2), Gogate A(3), Tran AQ(2), Wheeler SB(3).
Author information:(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, UNC Eshelman School ofPharmacy.(2)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,and.(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, UNC Gillings School of GlobalPublic Health, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.
OBJECTIVES: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) versus primary debulking surgery(PDS) for advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (AEOC) remains controversial in theUnited States. Generalizability of existing trial results has been criticizedbecause of less aggressive debulking procedures than commonly used in the UnitedStates. As a result, economic evaluations using input data from these trials maynot accurately reflect costs and outcomes associated with more aggressive primarysurgery. Using data from an ongoing trial performing aggressive debulking, weinvestigated the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of NACT versus PDS for AEOC.METHODS: A decision tree model was constructed to estimate differences inshort-term outcomes and costs for a hypothetical cohort of 15,000 AEOC patients(US annual incidence of AEOC) treated with NACT versus PDS over a 1-year timehorizon from a Medicare payer perspective. Outcomes included costs percancer-related death averted, life-years and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)gained. Base-case probabilities, costs, and utilities were based on the SurgicalComplications Related to Primary or Interval Debulking in Ovarian Neoplasmstrial. Base-case analyses assumed equivalent survival; threshold analysisestimated the maximum survival difference that would result in NACT beingcost-effective at $50,000/QALY and $100,000/QALY willingness-to-pay thresholds.Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used to characterize model uncertainty.RESULTS: Compared with PDS, NACT was associated with $142 million in costsavings, 1098 fewer cancer-related deaths, and 1355 life-years and 1715 QALYsgained, making it the dominant treatment strategy for all outcomes. Insensitivity analysis, NACT remained dominant in 99.3% of simulations. Neoadjuvantchemotherapy remained cost-effective at $50,000/QALY and $100,000/QALYwillingness-to-pay thresholds if survival differences were less than 2.7 and 1.4months, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: In the short term, NACT is cost-saving with improved outcomes.However, if PDS provides a longer-term survival advantage, it may becost-effective. Research is needed on the role of patient preferences intradeoffs between survival and quality of life.
