J Clin Oncol. 2018 Jul 10;36(20):2088-2100. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.77.7482. Epub2018 May 18.
Systematic Review of the Impact of Cancer Survivorship Care Plans on HealthOutcomes and Health Care Delivery.
Jacobsen PB(1), DeRosa AP(1), Henderson TO(1), Mayer DK(1), Moskowitz CS(1),Paskett ED(1), Rowland JH(1).
Author information:(1)Paul B. Jacobsen, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD; Antonio P. DeRosa,Weill Cornell Medicine; Chaya S. Moskowitz, Memorial Sloan-Kettering CancerCenter, New York, NY; Tara O. Henderson, Pritzker School of Medicine, Universityof Chicago, Chicago, IL; Deborah K. Mayer, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC; Electra D. Paskett, The Ohio State University, Columbus,OH; and Julia H. Rowland, Smith Center for Healing and the Arts, Washington, DC.
Purpose Numerous organizations recommend that patients with cancer receive asurvivorship care plan (SCP) comprising a treatment summary and follow-up careplans. Among current barriers to implementation are providers' concerns about thestrength of evidence that SCPs improve outcomes. This systematic review evaluateswhether delivery of SCPs has a positive impact on health outcomes and health caredelivery for cancer survivors. Methods Randomized and nonrandomized studiesevaluating patient-reported outcomes, health care use, and disease outcomes afterdelivery of SCPs were identified by searching MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO,Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Cochrane Library.Data extracted by independent raters were summarized on the basis of qualitativesynthesis. Results Eleven nonrandomized and 13 randomized studies met inclusioncriteria. Variability was evident across studies in cancer types, SCP deliverytiming and method, SCP recipients and content, SCP-related counseling, andoutcomes assessed. Nonrandomized study findings yielded descriptive informationon satisfaction with care and reactions to SCPs. Randomized study findings weregenerally negative for the most commonly assessed outcomes (ie, physical,functional, and psychological well-being); findings were positive in singlestudies for other outcomes, including amount of information received,satisfaction with care, and physician implementation of recommended care.Conclusion Existing research provides little evidence that SCPs improve healthoutcomes and health care delivery. Possible explanations include heterogeneity instudy designs and the low likelihood that SCP delivery alone would influencedistal outcomes. Findings are limited but more positive for proximal outcomes(eg, information received) and for care delivery, particularly when SCPs areaccompanied by counseling to prepare survivors for future clinical encounters.Recommendations for future research include focusing to a greater extent onevaluating ways to ensure SCP recommendations are subsequently acted on as partof ongoing care.
