Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 1;24(11):2539-2547. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-3078.Epub 2018 Mar 15.
Multivalent Binding and Biomimetic Cell Rolling Improves the Sensitivity andSpecificity of Circulating Tumor Cell Capture.
Myung JH(#)(1), Eblan MJ(#)(2), Caster JM(2), Park SJ(1)(3), Poellmann MJ(3),Wang K(2), Tam KA(1), Miller SM(2), Shen C(2), Chen RC(2), Zhang T(4), TepperJE(2), Chera BS(2), Wang AZ(5), Hong S(6)(3)(7).
Author information:(1)Department of Biopharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University ofIllinois, Chicago, Illinois.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Pharmaceutical Sciences Division, School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin,Madison, Wisconsin.(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, Duke Cancer Institute,Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.andrew_wang@med.unc.edu seungpyo.hong@wisc.edu.(6)Department of Biopharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University ofIllinois, Chicago, Illinois. andrew_wang@med.unc.edu seungpyo.hong@wisc.edu.(7)Department of Integrated OMICs for Biomedical Science and UnderwoodInternational College, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.(#)Contributed equally
Purpose: We aimed to examine the effects of multivalent binding and biomimeticcell rolling on the sensitivity and specificity of circulating tumor cell (CTC)capture. We also investigated the clinical significance of CTCs and their kineticprofiles in patients with cancer undergoing radiotherapy treatment.ExperimentalDesign: Patients with histologically confirmed primary carcinoma undergoingradiotherapy, with or without chemotherapy, were eligible for enrollment.Peripheral blood was collected prospectively at up to five time points, includingbefore radiotherapy, at the first week, mid-point and final week of treatment, aswell as 4 to 12 weeks after completion of radiotherapy. CTC capture wasaccomplished using a nanotechnology-based assay (CapioCyte) functionalized withaEpCAM, aHER-2, and aEGFR.Results: CapioCyte was able to detect CTCs in all 24cancer patients enrolled. Multivalent binding via poly(amidoamine) dendrimersfurther improved capture sensitivity. We also showed that cell rolling effect canimprove CTC capture specificity (% of captured cells that are CK+/CD45-/DAPI+) upto 38%. Among the 18 patients with sequential CTC measurements, the median CTCdecreased from 113 CTCs/mL before radiotherapy to 32 CTCs/mL at completion ofradiotherapy (P = 0.001). CTCs declined throughout radiotherapy in patients withcomplete clinical and/or radiographic response, in contrast with an elevation inCTCs at mid or post-radiotherapy in the two patients with known pathologicresidual disease.Conclusions: Our study demonstrated that multivalent binding andcell rolling can improve the sensitivity and specificity of CTC capture comparedwith multivalent binding alone, allowing reliable monitoring of CTC changesduring and after treatment. Clin Cancer Res; 24(11); 2539-47. ©2018 AACR.
©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.
