Cancer. 2018 Jul 1;124(13):2832-2840. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31401. Epub 2018 Apr 16.
Symptom and function profiles of men with localized prostate cancer.
Reeve BB(1)(2), Tan X(3)(4), Chen RC(3)(5), Usinger DS(3), Pinheiro LC(6).
Author information:(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University School of Medicine,Durham, North Carolina.(2)Center for Health Measurement, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham,North Carolina.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, North Carolina.(4)Department of Biostatistics, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, School of Medicine, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(6)Division of General Internal Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NewYork.
BACKGROUND: Men diagnosed with localized prostate cancer seek information on howtreatment options may impact their health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Theauthors used latent profile analysis (LPA) to group men according to theirsymptom burden and functional status and to identify patient characteristicsassociated with each HRQOL profile.METHODS: Patients completed the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement InformationSystem and the Expanded Prostate Index Composite measures 3 months aftertreatment initiation. Anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbance, pain,diarrhea, urinary obstruction, urinary incontinence, erectile function, and sexsatisfaction were modeled jointly using LPA, and the analysis was adjusted forcovariates to examine associations between patient characteristics and profiles.RESULTS: One-third of the 373 men were not non-Hispanic white (26% were black).Four LPA profiles were identified. Men who experienced the "best HRQOL" were lesslikely to receive treatment, to be older, and to smoke. Men in the second bestprofile experienced symptoms similar to men in the best HRQOL group but reportedpoor sexual and urinary function, because they were more likely to receivetherapy. The third profile included men with increased symptom burden and poorfunctioning who were likely to undergo prostatectomy and to have increasedcomorbidity. The "worst HRQOL" group experienced the worst symptoms and thepoorest functioning, and these men were more likely to be younger, to have morecomorbidities, and to smoke.CONCLUSIONS: LPA revealed that men who receive the same treatment can experiencevery different HRQOL impact. Understanding the factors most associated withpoorer HRQOL allows clinicians to focus their care on individuals most in need ofsymptom management and support. Cancer 2018;124:2832-2840. © 2018 American CancerSociety.
© 2018 American Cancer Society.
