Clin Lung Cancer. 2018 Jul;19(4):e481-e487. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2018.03.008. Epub2018 Mar 17.
Phase Ib Study of Bavituximab With Carboplatin and Pemetrexed inChemotherapy-Naive Advanced Nonsquamous Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer.
Grilley-Olson JE(1), Weiss J(2), Ivanova A(3), Villaruz LC(4), Moore DT(3),Stinchcombe TE(2), Lee C(2), Shan JS(5), Socinski MA(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Lineberger Cancer Center, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, NC. Electronic address: juneko_grilley-olson@med.unc.edu.(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Lineberger Cancer Center, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(3)Lineberger Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC;Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(4)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA.(5)Peregrine Pharmaceuticals, Inc, Tustin, CA.
INTRODUCTION: Bavituximab is an immunomodulatory chimeric monoclonal antibodythat inhibits phosphatidylserine signaling, which promotes innate and adaptiveimmune responses. In this phase Ib trial we evaluated the safety, tolerability,and preliminary antitumor activity of pemetrexed, carboplatin, bavituximab inadvanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC and performancestatus 0 or 1 were treated with pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 and carboplatin area underthe curve 6 once every 3 weeks for up to 6 cycles, with concurrent bavituximab(0.3, 1, or 3 mg/kg) intravenously weekly, using a standard 3+3 design. At themaximum identified dose, additional patients were enrolled to furthercharacterize the safety profile. The primary objective was to characterize thesafety, determine the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), and establish therecommended phase II dose of bavituximab in combination with pemetrexed andcarboplatin in incurable stage IV nonsquamous NSCLC.RESULTS: Between March 29, 2011 and December 30, 2013, 26 patients were enrolled.Three patients each were enrolled into dose escalation cohorts of bavituximab(0.3, 1, and 3 mg/kg). Therapy was well tolerated with no DLTs, and toxicitieswere consistent with those expected from pemetrexed/carboplatin. Overall responsewas 28%, with a median progression-free and overall survival of 4.8 months and12.2 months, respectively.CONCLUSION: The combination of pemetrexed, carboplatin, bavituximab is welltolerated. However, with toxicities and preliminary efficacy signal similar topemetrexed/carboplatin alone, further studies of bavituximab should focus on waysto enhance its immunomodulatory role.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
