Med Decis Making. 2018 Jul;38(5):614-624. doi: 10.1177/0272989X18773713.
A Decision Aid to Promote Appropriate Colorectal Cancer Screening among OlderAdults: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Lewis CL(1), Kistler CE(2), Dalton AF(1), Morris C(3), Ferrari R(4), BarclayC(4), Brewer NT(5), Dolor R(6), Harris R(4), Vu M(7), Golin CE(4).
Author information:(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University ofColorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA.(2)Department of Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA.(4)Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Health, andLineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(6)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Duke School ofMedicine, Durham, NC, USA.(7)Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
BACKGROUND: Concerns have been raised about both over- and underutilization ofcolorectal cancer (CRC) screening in older patients and the need to alignscreening behavior with likelihood of net benefit.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to test a novel use of a patientdecision aid (PtDA) to promote appropriate CRC screening in older adults.METHODS: A total of 424 patients ages 70 to 84 y who were not up to date with CRCscreening participated in a double-blinded randomized controlled trial of a PtDAtargeted to older adults making decisions about whether to undergo CRC screeningfrom March 2012 to February 2015.INTERVENTION: Patients were randomized to a targeted PtDA or an attentioncontrol. The PtDA was designed to facilitate individualized decisionmaking-helping patients understand the potential risks, benefits, anduncertainties of CRC screening given advanced age, health state, preferences, andvalues.OUTCOMES: Two composite outcomes, appropriate CRC screening behavior 6 mo afterthe index visit and appropriate screening intent immediately after the visit,were defined as completed screening or intent for patients in good health,discussion about screening with their provider for patients in intermediatehealth, and no screening or intent for patients in poor health. Health state wasdetermined by age and Charlson Comorbidity Index.RESULTS: Four hundred twelve (97%) and 421 (99%) patients were analyzed for theprimary and secondary outcomes, respectively. Appropriate screening behavior at 6mo was higher in the intervention group (55% v. 45%, P = 0.023) as wasappropriate screening intent following the provider visit (61% v. 47%, P =0.003).LIMITATIONS: The study took place in a single geographic region. The appropriateCRC screening classification system used in this study has not been formallyvalidated.CONCLUSIONS: A PtDA for older adults promoted appropriate CRC screening behaviorand intent.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov, registration number NCT01575990.https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01575990?term=epic-d&rank=1.
