J Invest Dermatol. 2018 May 31. pii: S0022-202X(18)32036-0. doi:10.1016/j.jid.2018.05.015. [Epub ahead of print]
Differential Roles of Rad18 and Chk2 in Genome Maintenance and SkinCarcinogenesis Following UV Exposure.
Tanoue Y(1), Toyoda T(2), Sun J(3), Mustofa MK(3), Tateishi C(3), Endo S(4),Motoyama N(5), Araki K(6), Wu D(7), Okuno Y(4), Tsukamoto T(8), Takeya M(9), IhnH(10), Vaziri C(11), Tateishi S(12).
Author information:(1)Department of Cell Maintenance, Institute of Molecular Embryology andGenetics, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan; Japan Society for the Promotionof Science (JSPS), Tokyo, Japan.(2)Division of Pathology, National institute of Health Sciences Biological safetycenter, Tokyo, Japan.(3)Department of Cell Maintenance, Institute of Molecular Embryology andGenetics, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.(4)Departments of Hematology, Rheumatology, and Infectious Diseases, KumamotoUniversity Graduate School of Medicine, Kumamoto, Japan.(5)Department of Human Nutrition, Sugiyama Jogakuen University School of LifeStudies, Nagoya, Japan.(6)Division of Developmental Genetics, Institute of Resource Development andAnalysis, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.(7)Department of Periodontology, Department of Biostatistics, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(8)Department of Diagnostic Pathology I, Fujita Health University School ofMedicine, Toyoake, Japan.(9)Department of Cell Pathology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, KumamotoUniversity, Kumamoto, Japan.(10)Department of Dermatology and Plastic Surgery, Faculty of Life Sciences,Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.(11)Department of Pathology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NorthCarolina, USA.(12)Department of Cell Maintenance, Institute of Molecular Embryology andGenetics, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan. Electronic address:tate@gpo.kumamoto-u.ac.jp.
Defects in DNA polymerase Eta (Polη) cause the sunlight-sensitivity and skincancer-propensity disorder xeroderma pigmentosum variant. The extent to whichPolη function depends on the upstream E3 ubiquitin ligase Rad18 is controversialand has not been investigated using mouse models. Therefore, we tested the roleof Rad18 in UV-inducible skin tumorigenesis. Because Rad18 deficiency leads tocompensatory DNA damage signaling by Chk2, we also investigated geneticinteractions between Rad18 and Chk2 in vivo. Chk2-/-Rad18-/- mice were prone tospontaneous lymphomagenesis. Both Chk2-/- and Chk2-/-Rad18-/- mice were prone toUV-B irradiation-induced skin tumorigenesis when compared with wild-type (WT)animals, but unexpectedly Rad18-/- mice did not recapitulate the skin tumorpropensity of Polη mutants. UV-irradiated Rad18-/- cells were more susceptible toG1/S arrest and apoptosis than WT cultures. Chk2 deficiency alleviated bothUV-induced G1/S phase arrest and apoptosis of WT and Rad18-/- cells, but led toincreased genomic instability. Taken together, our results demonstrate that thetumor-suppressive role of Polη in UV-treated skin is Rad18 independent. We alsodefine a role for Chk2 in suppressing UV-induced skin carcinogenesis in vivo.This study identifies Chk2 dysfunction as a potential risk factor forsunlight-induced skin tumorigenesis in humans.
Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
