Conflict of interest statement: None declared
Phytochemistry. 2018 Aug;152:61-70. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2018.04.014. Epub2018 May 21.
PepSAVI-MS reveals anticancer and antifungal cycloviolacins in Viola odorata.
Parsley NC(1), Kirkpatrick CL(1), Crittenden CM(2), Rad JG(3), Hoskin DW(4),Brodbelt JS(2), Hicks LM(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Chemistry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Texas at Austin, TX, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia, Canada.(4)Department of Pathology, Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia, Canada; Departmentof Microbiology and Immunology, Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia, Canada;Department of Surgery, Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia, Canada.(5)Department of Chemistry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC, USA.Electronic address: lmhicks@unc.edu.
Widespread resistance to antimicrobial and cancer therapeutics is evolving inevery country worldwide and has a direct impact on global health, agriculture andthe economy. The specificity and selectivity of bioactive peptide naturalproducts present a possible stopgap measure to address the ongoing deficit of newtherapeutic compounds. PepSAVI-MS (Statistically-guided bioActive Peptidesprioritized VIa Mass Spectrometry) is an adaptable method for the analysis ofnatural product libraries to rapidly identify bioactive peptides. This pipelinewas validated via screening of the cyclotide-rich botanical species Viola odorataand identification of the known antimicrobial and anticancer cyclotidecycloviolacin O2. Herein we present and validate novel bioactivities of theanthelmintic V. odorata cyclotide, cycloviolacin O8 (cyO8), including micromolaranticancer activity against PC-3 prostate, MDA-MB-231 breast, and OVCAR-3 ovariancancer cell lines and antifungal activity against the agricultural pathogenFusarium graminearum. A reduction/alkylation strategy in tandem with PepSAVI-MSanalysis also revealed several previously uncharacterized putatively bioactivecyclotides. Downstream implementation of ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD)tandem mass spectrometry is demonstrated for cyO8 as a method to addresstraditionally difficult-to-sequence cyclotide species. This work emphasizes thetherapeutic and agricultural potential of natural product bioactive peptides andthe necessity of developing robust analytical tools to deconvolute nature'scomplexity.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
