Gastroenterology. 2018 Aug;155(2):316-326.e6. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2018.04.011.Epub 2018 Apr 13.
Development of Evidence-Based Surveillance Intervals After RadiofrequencyAblation of Barrett's Esophagus.
Cotton CC(1), Haidry R(2), Thrift AP(3), Lovat L(2), Shaheen NJ(4).
Author information:(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Department of Medicine, Divisionof Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Center for Esophageal Diseases andSwallowing, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(2)University College Hospital, Department of Gastroenterology, Fitzrovia,London, UK; Division of Surgery & Interventional Science, University CollegeLondon, London, UK.(3)Section of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, Department of Medicine,Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Dan L Duncan Comprehensive CancerCenter, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.(4)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Department of Medicine, Divisionof Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Center for Esophageal Diseases andSwallowing, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Electronic address:nshaheen@med.unc.edu.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Barrett's esophagus (BE) recurs in 25% or more of patientstreated successfully with radiofrequency ablation (RFA), so surveillanceendoscopy is recommended after complete eradication of intestinal metaplasia(CEIM). The frequency of surveillance is informed only by expert opinion. Weaimed to model the incidence of neoplastic recurrence, validate the model in anindependent cohort, and propose evidence-based surveillance intervals.METHODS: We collected data from the United States Radiofrequency AblationRegistry (US RFA, 2004-2013) and the United Kingdom National Halo Registry (UKNHR, 2007-2015) to build and validate models to predict the incidence ofneoplasia recurrence after initially successful RFA. We developed 3 categories ofrisk and modeled intervals to yield 0.1% risk of recurrence with invasiveadenocarcinoma. We fit Cox proportional hazards models assessing discriminationby C statistic and 95% confidence limits.RESULTS: The incidence of neoplastic recurrence was associated with most severehistologic grade before CEIM, age, endoscopic mucosal resection, sex, andbaseline BE segment length. In multivariate analysis, a model based solely onmost severe pre-CEIM histology predicted neoplastic recurrence with a C statisticof 0.892 (95% confidence limit, 0.863-0.921) in the US RFA registry. This modelalso performed well when we used data from the UK NHR. Our model divided patientsinto 3 risk groups based on baseline histologic grade: non-dysplastic BE;indefinite for dysplasia, low-grade dysplasia, and high-grade dysplasia; orintramucosal adenocarcinoma. For patients with low-grade dysplasia, we proposesurveillance endoscopy at 1 and 3 years after CEIM; for patients with high-gradedysplasia or intramucosal adenocarcinoma, we propose surveillance endoscopy at0.25, 0.5, and 1 year after CEIM, then annually.CONCLUSION: In analyses of data from the US RFA and UK NHR for BE, amuch-attenuated schedule of surveillance endoscopy would provide protection frominvasive adenocarcinoma. Adherence to the recommended surveillance intervalscould decrease the number of endoscopies performed yet identify unresectablecancers at rates less than 1/1000 endoscopies.
Copyright © 2018 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
