J Cancer Surviv. 2018 Aug;12(4):495-508. doi: 10.1007/s11764-018-0688-6. Epub2018 Mar 23.
Survivorship care plans: are randomized controlled trials assessing outcomes thatare relevant to stakeholders?
Birken SA(1), Urquhart R(2), Munoz-Plaza C(3), Zizzi AR(4), Haines E(4), StoverA(4), Mayer DK(5), Hahn EE(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The University of North Carolinaat Chapel Hill, 1103E McGavran-Greenberg Hall, 135 Dauer Dr., Chapel Hill, NC,27599, USA. birken@unc.edu.(2)Department of Surgery, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada.(3)Department of Research and Evaluation, Kaiser Permanente Research, Pasadena,CA, USA.(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The University of North Carolinaat Chapel Hill, 1103E McGavran-Greenberg Hall, 135 Dauer Dr., Chapel Hill, NC,27599, USA.(5)School of Nursing, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The University ofNorth Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to compare outcomes assessed in extantrandomized controlled trials (RCTs) to outcomes that stakeholders expect fromsurvivorship care plans (SCPs). To facilitate the transition from activetreatment to follow-up care for the 15.5 million US cancer survivors, manyorganizations require SCP use. However, results of several RCTs of SCPs'effectiveness have been null, possibly because they have evaluated outcomes onwhich SCPs should be expected to have limited influence. Stakeholders (e.g.,survivors, oncologists) may expect outcomes that differ from RCTs' outcomes.METHODS: We identified RCTs' outcomes using a PubMed literature review. Weidentified outcomes that stakeholders expect from SCPs using semistructuredinterviews with stakeholders in three healthcare systems in the USA and Canada.Finally, we mapped RCTs' outcomes onto stakeholder-identified outcomes.RESULTS: RCT outcomes did not fully address outcomes that stakeholders expectedfrom SCPs, and RCTs assessed outcomes that stakeholders did not expect from SCPs.RCTs often assessed outcomes only from survivors' perspectives.CONCLUSIONS: RCTs of SCPs' effectiveness have not assessed outcomes thatstakeholders expect. To better understand SCPs' effectiveness, future RCTs shouldassess outcomes of SCP use that are relevant from the perspective of multiplestakeholders.IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: SCPs' effectiveness may be optimized when usedwith an eye toward outcomes that stakeholders expect from SCPs. For survivors,this means using SCPs as a map to guide them with respect to what kind offollow-up care they should seek, when they should seek it, and from whom theyshould seek it.
