Genetics. 2018 Jun;209(2):439-456. doi: 10.1534/genetics.118.300923. Epub 2018Apr 13.
Genomic Instability Promoted by Overexpression of Mismatch Repair Factors inYeast: A Model for Understanding Cancer Progression.
Chakraborty U(1), Dinh TA(2), Alani E(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NewYork 14853-2703.(2)Curriculum in Genetics and Molecular Biology, Biological and BiomedicalSciences Program, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,North Carolina 27599.(3)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NewYork 14853-2703 eea3@cornell.edu.
Mismatch repair (MMR) proteins act in spellchecker roles to excisemisincorporation errors that occur during DNA replication. Curiously, large-scaleanalyses of a variety of cancers showed that increased expression of MMR proteinsoften correlated with tumor aggressiveness, metastasis, and early recurrence. Tobetter understand these observations, we used The Cancer Genome Atlas and GeneExpression across Normal and Tumor tissue databases to analyze MMR proteinexpression in cancers. We found that the MMR genes MSH2 and MSH6 areoverexpressed more frequently than MSH3, and that MSH2 and MSH6 are oftencooverexpressed as a result of copy number amplifications of these genes. Theseobservations encouraged us to test the effects of upregulating MMR protein levelsin baker's yeast, where we can sensitively monitor genome instability phenotypesassociated with cancer initiation and progression. Msh6 overexpression (two- tofourfold) almost completely disrupted mechanisms that prevent recombinationbetween divergent DNA sequences by interacting with the DNA polymeraseprocessivity clamp PCNA and by sequestering the Sgs1 helicase. Importantly,cooverexpression of Msh2 and Msh6 (∼eightfold) conferred, in a PCNAinteraction-dependent manner, several genome instability phenotypes includingincreased mutation rate, increased sensitivity to the DNA replication inhibitorHU and the DNA-damaging agents MMS and 4-nitroquinoline N-oxide, and elevatedloss-of-heterozygosity. Msh2 and Msh6 cooverexpression also altered the cellcycle distribution of exponentially growing cells, resulting in an increasedfraction of unbudded cells, consistent with a larger percentage of cells in G1.These novel observations suggested that overexpression of MSH factors affectedthe integrity of the DNA replication fork, causing genome instability phenotypesthat could be important for promoting cancer progression.
Copyright © 2018 by the Genetics Society of America.
