Support Care Cancer. 2018 Aug;26(8):2695-2705. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4096-2.Epub 2018 Feb 23.
Text mining-based in silico drug discovery in oral mucositis caused by high-dosecancer therapy.
Kirk J(1)(2), Shah N(1), Noll B(1), Stevens CB(1), Lawler M(1), Mougeot FB(1),Mougeot JC(3)(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Oral Medicine, Cannon Research Center, Carolinas HealthCareSystem, Charlotte, NC, USA.(2)Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, University of North Carolina atCharlotte, Charlotte, NC, USA.(3)Department of Oral Medicine, Cannon Research Center, Carolinas HealthCareSystem, Charlotte, NC, USA. jean-luc.mougeot@carolinashealthcare.org.(4)Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, University of North Carolina atCharlotte, Charlotte, NC, USA. jean-luc.mougeot@carolinashealthcare.org.
INTRODUCTION: Oral mucositis (OM) is a major dose-limiting side effect ofchemotherapy and radiation used in cancer treatment. Due to the complex nature ofOM, currently available drug-based treatments are of limited efficacy.OBJECTIVES: Our objectives were (i) to determine genes and molecular pathwaysassociated with OM and wound healing using computational tools and publiclyavailable data and (ii) to identify drugs formulated for topical use targetingthe relevant OM molecular pathways.METHODS: OM and wound healing-associated genes were determined by text mining,and the intersection of the two gene sets was selected for gene ontology analysisusing the GeneCodis program. Protein interaction network analysis was performedusing STRING-db. Enriched gene sets belonging to the identified pathways werequeried against the Drug-Gene Interaction database to find drug candidates fortopical use in OM.RESULTS: Our analysis identified 447 genes common to both the "OM" and "woundhealing" text mining concepts. Gene enrichment analysis yielded 20 genesrepresenting six pathways and targetable by a total of 32 drugs which couldpossibly be formulated for topical application. A manual search onClinicalTrials.gov confirmed no relevant pathway/drug candidate had beenoverlooked. Twenty-five of the 32 drugs can directly affect the PTGS2 (COX-2)pathway, the pathway that has been targeted in previous clinical trials withlimited success.CONCLUSIONS: Drug discovery using in silico text mining and pathway analysistools can facilitate the identification of existing drugs that have the potentialof topical administration to improve OM treatment.
