Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 1;78(15):4229-4240. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-0631. Epub2018 May 29.
FGFR1-Activated Translation of WNT Pathway Components with Structured 5' UTRs IsVulnerable to Inhibition of EIF4A-Dependent Translation Initiation.
Nguyen TM(1)(2), Kabotyanski EB(2), Dou Y(3), Reineke LC(4), Zhang P(5), ZhangXH(3), Malovannaya A(2)(6)(7)(8), Jung SY(6)(7), Mo Q(8), Roarty KP(2), ChenY(9), Zhang B(3)(10), Neilson JR(4), Lloyd RE(11), Perou CM(12), EllisMJ(1)(3)(8), Rosen JM(13)(2).
Author information:(1)Graduate Program in Translational Biology and Molecular Medicine, BaylorCollege of Medicine, Houston, Texas.(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine,Houston, Texas.(3)Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,Texas.(4)Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, Baylor College of Medicine,Houston, Texas.(5)Key Laboratory of RNA Biology, Center for Big Data Research in Health,Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.(6)Verna & Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, BaylorCollege of Medicine, Houston, Texas.(7)Mass Spectrometry Proteomics Core, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.(8)Dan L Duncan Comprehensive Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.(9)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University ofTexas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.(10)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,Houston, Texas.(11)Department of Molecular Virology and Microbiology, Baylor College ofMedicine, Houston, Texas.(12)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(13)Graduate Program in Translational Biology and Molecular Medicine, BaylorCollege of Medicine, Houston, Texas. jrosen@bcm.edu.
Cooperativity between WNT and FGF signaling is well documented in embryonicdevelopment and cancer progression, but the molecular mechanisms underlying thiscross-talk remain elusive. In this study, we interrogated the dynamics of RNAlevels, ribosome occupancy, and protein expression as a function of inducible FGFsignaling in mouse mammary glands with constitutive WNT hyperactivation.Multiomics correlation analysis revealed a substantial discrepancy between RNAand ribosome occupancy levels versus protein levels. However, this discrepancydecreased as cells became premalignant and dynamically responded to FGFsignaling, implicating the importance of stringent gene regulation innontransformed cells. Analysis of individual genes demonstrated that acute FGFhyperactivation increased translation of many stem cell self-renewal regulators,including WNT signaling components, and decreased translation of genes regulatingcellular senescence. WNT pathway components translationally upregulated by FGFsignaling had long and structured 5' UTRs with a high frequency of polypurinesequences, several of which harbored (CGG)4 motifs that can fold into eitherstable G-quadruplexes or other stable secondary structures. The FGF-mediatedincrease in translation of WNT pathway components was compromised by silvestrol,an inhibitor of EIF4A that clamps EIF4A to polypurine sequences to block 43Sscanning and inhibits its RNA-unwinding activity important for translationinitiation. Moreover, silvestrol treatment significantly delayed FGF-WNT-driventumorigenesis. Taken together, these results suggest that FGF signalingselectively enhances translation of structured mRNAs, particularly WNT signalingcomponents, and highlight their vulnerability to inhibitors that target the RNAhelicase EIF4A.Significance: The RNA helicase EIF4A may serve as a therapeutictarget for breast cancers that require FGF and WNT signaling. Cancer Res; 78(15);4229-40. ©2018 AACR.
©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.
