Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2018 Jun;81(6):991-998. doi:10.1007/s00280-018-3570-3. Epub 2018 Mar 30.
Impact of formulation on the iontophoretic delivery of the FOLFIRINOX regimen forthe treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Byrne JD(1)(2), Jajja MRN(3), O'Neill AT(3), Schorzman AN(4), Keeler AW(4), LuftJC(5)(3), Zamboni WC(3)(4), DeSimone JM(5)(3)(6)(7)(8), Yeh JJ(3)(7)(9).
Author information:(1)Division of Molecular Pharmaceutics, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.jdbyrne@partners.org.(2)School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC, 27599, USA. jdbyrne@partners.org.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.(4)Division of Pharmacotherapy and Experimental Therapeutics, Eshelman School ofPharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599,USA.(5)Division of Molecular Pharmaceutics, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.(6)Department of Chemistry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, 27599, USA.(7)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.(8)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, North Carolina StateUniversity, Raleigh, NC, 27695, USA.(9)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.
PURPOSE: Effective treatment of patients with locally advanced pancreatic canceris a significant unmet clinical need. One major hurdle that exists is inadequatedrug delivery due to the desmoplastic stroma and poor vascularization that ischaracteristic of pancreatic cancer. The local iontophoretic delivery ofchemotherapies provides a novel way of improving treatment. With the growingpractice of highly toxic combination therapies in the treatment of pancreaticcancer, the use of iontophoresis for local delivery can potentiate theanti-cancer effects of these therapies while sparing unwanted toxicity. Theobjective of this study was to investigate the impact of formulation on theelectro-transport of the FOLFIRINOX regimen for the development of a newtreatment for pancreatic cancer.METHODS: Three formulations of the FOLFIRINOX regimen (5-fluorouracil,leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin) were generated at a fixed pH of 6.0 andwere referred to as formulation A (single drug solution with all four drugscombined), formulation B (two drug solutions with two drugs per solution), andformulation C (four individual drug solutions). Anodic iontophoresis of the threedifferent formulations was evaluated in orthotopic patient-derived xenografts ofpancreatic cancer.RESULTS: Iontophoretic transport of the FOLFIRINOX drugs was characterizedaccording to organ exposure after a single device treatment in vivo. We reportthat the co-iontophoresis of two drug solutions, leucovorin + oxaliplatin and5-fluorouracil + irinotecan, resulted in the highest levels of cytotoxic drugs inthe tumor compared to drugs delivered individually or combined into one solution.There was no significant difference in plasma, pancreas, kidney, and liverexposure to the cytotoxic drugs delivered by the three different formulations. Inaddition, we found that reducing the duration of iontophoretic treatment from 10to 5 min per solution resulted in a significant decrease in drug concentrations.CONCLUSIONS: Underlying the difference in drug transport of the formulations waselectrolyte concentrations, which includes both active and inactive components.Electrolyte concentrations can hinder or improve drug electro-transport. Overall,balancing electrolyte concentration is needed for optimal electro-transport.
