BJU Int. 2018 Sep;122(3):434-440. doi: 10.1111/bju.14220. Epub 2018 Apr 24.
Modelling cost-effectiveness of a biomarker-based approach to neoadjuvantchemotherapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
Lotan Y(1), Woldu SL(1), Sanli O(1)(2), Black P(3), Milowsky MI(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Urology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,Dallas, TX, USA.(2)Department of Urology, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey.(3)Department of Urologic Sciences, The University of British Columbia,Vancouver, BC, Canada.(4)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of North Carolina LinebergerComprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
OBJECTIVES: To model the cost-effectiveness of a biomarker-based approach toselect patients for neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) before radical cystectomy (RC)in muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC).PATIENTS AND METHODS: We obtained data from the most recent clinical studies onpatients with locally advanced MIBC treated by RC, including stage distributions,overall survival (OS) estimates, associated costs, and utilisation/response toNAC. Additionally, we estimated the putative efficacy of three biomarkers toselect patients for NAC: DNA-repair gene panel [ataxia telangiectasia mutated(ATM), retinoblastoma 1 (RB1), and Fanconi anaemia complementation group C(FANCC)], excision repair cross-complementation group 2 (ERCC2), and ribonucleicacid (RNA) subtypes. A decision analysis model was developed to evaluate thecost-effectiveness of biomarker-based approaches to select patients with MIBC forNAC. Comparison of cost-effectiveness included RC alone, unselected NAC plus RC,and NAC based on the three aforementioned biomarkers.RESULTS: The DNA-repair gene panel-based approach to NAC was the mostcost-effective strategy (mean OS of 3.14 years, $31 482/life year). Under thisapproach, 38% would undergo NAC, about twice the number of patients who arecurrently receiving NAC for MIBC. Such an approach would improve mean OS by 5.2,1.6, and 4.4 months compared to RC alone, a hypothetical scenario where allpatients received NAC, and compared to current estimates of NAC utilisation,respectively.CONCLUSIONS: A biomarker-based strategy to identify patients with MIBC who shouldundergo NAC was more cost-effective than unselected use of NAC or RC alone. Asfurther data becomes available, such a model may serve as a basis forincorporating biomarkers into clinical decision making.
© 2018 The Authors BJU International © 2018 BJU International Published by JohnWiley & Sons Ltd.
