Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 1;24(15):3632-3643. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-0041.Epub 2018 Apr 24.
Tryptophan Metabolism Contributes to Radiation-Induced Immune CheckpointReactivation in Glioblastoma.
Kesarwani P(1), Prabhu A(1), Kant S(1), Kumar P(2), Graham SF(2), Buelow KL(1),Wilson GD(1), Miller CR(3), Chinnaiyan P(4)(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Beaumont Health, Royal Oak, Michigan.(2)Metabolomics and Obstetrics/Gynecology, Beaumont Research Institute, BeaumontHealth, Royal Oak, Michigan.(3)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, Neurology, & Pharmacology,Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center and Neurosciences Center, University ofNorth Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Beaumont Health, Royal Oak, Michigan.prakash.chinnaiyan@beaumont.edu.(5)Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine, Royal Oak, Michigan.
Purpose: Immune checkpoint inhibitors designed to revert tumor-inducedimmunosuppression have emerged as potent anticancer therapies. Tryptophanmetabolism represents an immune checkpoint, and targeting this pathway'srate-limiting enzyme IDO1 is actively being investigated clinically. Here, westudied the intermediary metabolism of tryptophan metabolism in glioblastoma andevaluated the activity of the IDO1 inhibitor GDC-0919, both alone and incombination with radiation (RT).Experimental Design: LC/GC-MS and expressionprofiling was performed for metabolomic and genomic analyses of patient-derivedglioma. Immunocompetent mice were injected orthotopically with geneticallyengineered murine glioma cells and treated with GDC-0919 alone or combined withRT. Flow cytometry was performed on isolated tumors to determine immuneconsequences of individual treatments.Results: Integrated cross-platform analysescoupling global metabolomic and gene expression profiling identified aberranttryptophan metabolism as a metabolic node specific to the mesenchymal andclassical subtypes of glioblastoma. GDC-0919 demonstrated potent inhibition ofthis node and effectively crossed the blood-brain barrier. Although GDC-0919 as asingle agent did not demonstrate antitumor activity, it had a strong potentialfor enhancing RT response in glioblastoma, which was further augmented with ahypofractionated regimen. RT response in glioblastoma involves immunestimulation, reflected by increases in activated and cytotoxic T cells, which wasbalanced by immune checkpoint reactivation, reflected by an increase in IDO1expression and regulatory T cells (Treg). GDC-0919 mitigated RT-induced Tregs andenhanced T-cell activation.Conclusions: Tryptophan metabolism represents ametabolic node in glioblastoma, and combining RT with IDO1 inhibition enhancestherapeutic response by mitigating RT-induced immunosuppression. Clin Cancer Res;24(15); 3632-43. ©2018 AACR.
©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.
