Cancer Epidemiol. 2018 Aug;55:8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.05.003. Epub 2018May 25.
Review of methodological challenges in comparing the effectiveness of neoadjuvantchemotherapy versus primary debulking surgery for advanced ovarian cancer in theUnited States.
Cole AL(1), Austin AE(2), Hickson RP(3), Dixon MS(3), Barber EL(4).
Author information:(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, UNC Eshelman School ofPharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 27599, USA.Electronic address: ashley.cole@unc.edu.(2)Department of Maternal and Child Health, UNC Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 27599, USA.(3)Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, UNC Eshelman School ofPharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 27599, USA.(4)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 60611 USA.
Randomized trials outside the U.S. have found non-inferior survival forneoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) versus primary debulking surgery (PDS) foradvanced ovarian cancer (AOC). However, these trials reported lower overallsurvival and lower rates of optimal debulking than U.S. studies, leading toquestions about generalizability to U.S. practice, where aggressive debulking ismore common. Consequently, comparative effectiveness in the U.S. remainscontroversial. We reviewed U.S. comparative effectiveness studies of NACT versusPDS for AOC. Here we describe methodological challenges, compare results totrials outside the U.S., and make suggestions for future research. We identifiedU.S. studies published in 2010 or later that evaluated the comparativeeffectiveness of NACT versus PDS on survival in AOC through a PubMed search. Twoindependent reviewers abstracted data from eligible articles. Nine of 230articles were eligible for review. Methodological challenges included unmeasuredconfounders, heterogeneous treatment effects, treatment variations over time, andinconsistent measurement of treatment and survival. Whereas some limitations wereunavoidable, several limitations noted across studies were avoidable, includingconditioning on mediating factors and immortal time introduced by measuringsurvival beginning from diagnosis. Without trials in the U.S., non-randomizedstudies are an important source of evidence for the ideal treatment for AOC.However, several methodological challenges exist when assessing the comparativeeffectiveness of NACT versus PDS in a non-randomized setting. Futureobservational studies must ensure that treatment is consistent throughout thestudy period and that treatment groups are comparable. Rapidly-evolving oncologydata networks may allow for identification of treatment intent and otherimportant confounders.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
