Hum Mutat. 2018 Nov;39(11):1542-1552. doi: 10.1002/humu.23640.
Integrating somatic variant data and biomarkers for germline variantclassification in cancer predisposition genes.
Walsh MF(1), Ritter DI(2), Kesserwan C(3), Sonkin D(4), Chakravarty D(1), ChaoE(5), Ghosh R(2), Kemel Y(1), Wu G(3), Lee K(6), Kulkarni S(2), Hedges D(3),Mandelker D(1), Ceyhan-Birsoy O(1), Luo M(7), Drazer M(8), Zhang L(1), OffitK(1), Plon SE(2).
Author information:(1)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York City, New York, USA.(2)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.(3)St. Jude Children's Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.(4)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.(5)University of California, Irvine, California, USA.(6)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(7)Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.(8)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
In its landmark paper about Standards and Guidelines for the Interpretation ofSequence Variants, the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG),and Association for Molecular Pathology (AMP) did not address how to use tumordata when assessing the pathogenicity of germline variants. The Clinical GenomeResource (ClinGen) established a multidisciplinary working group, theGermline/Somatic Variant Subcommittee (GSVS) with this focus. The GSVSimplemented a survey to determine current practices of integrating somatic datawhen classifying germline variants in cancer predisposition genes. The GSVS thenreviewed and analyzed available resources of relevant somatic data, and performedintegrative germline variant curation exercises. The committee determined thatsomatic hotspots could be systematically integrated into moderate evidence ofpathogenicity (PM1). Tumor RNA sequencing data showing altered splicing may beconsidered as strong evidence in support of germline pathogenicity (PVS1) andtumor phenotypic features such as mutational signatures be considered supportingevidence of pathogenicity (PP4). However, at present, somatic data such as focalloss of heterozygosity and mutations occurring on the alternative allele are notrecommended to be systematically integrated, instead, incorporation of this typeof data should take place under the advisement of multidisciplinary cancer centertumor-normal sequencing boards.
© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
