Cancer. 2018 Aug 1;124(15):3136-3144. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31530. Epub 2018 May 4.
Patient-centered prioritization of bladder cancer research.
Smith AB(1)(2), Chisolm S(3), Deal A(2), Spangler A(3), Quale DZ(3), Bangs R(4),Jones JM(4), Gore JL(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, North Carolina.(2)Multidisciplinary Genitourinary Oncology, Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network, Bethesda, Maryland.(4)Patient Advocates, Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network, Bethesda, Maryland.(5)Department of Urology, University of Washington, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance,Seattle, Washington.
BACKGROUND: Patient-centered research requires the meaningful involvement ofpatients and caregivers throughout the research process. The objective of thisstudy was to create a process for sustainable engagement for researchprioritization within oncology.METHODS: From December 2014 to 2016, a network of engaged patients for researchprioritization was created in partnership with the Bladder Cancer AdvocacyNetwork (BCAN): the BCAN Patient Survey Network (PSN). The PSN leveraged anonline bladder cancer community with additional recruitment through printadvertisements and social media campaigns. Prioritized research questions weredeveloped through a modified Delphi process and were iterated throughmultidisciplinary working groups and a repeat survey.RESULTS: In year 1 of the PSN, 354 patients and caregivers responded to theresearch prioritization survey; the number of responses increased to 1034 in year2. The majority of respondents had non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC),and the mean time since diagnosis was 5 years. Stakeholder-identified questionsfor noninvasive, invasive, and metastatic disease were prioritized by the PSN.Free-text questions were sorted with thematic mapping. Several questionssubmitted by respondents were among the prioritized research questions. A finalprioritized list of research questions was disseminated to various fundingagencies, and a highly ranked NMIBC research question was included as a priorityarea in the 2017 Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute announcement ofpragmatic trial funding.CONCLUSIONS: Patient engagement is needed to identify high-priority researchquestions in oncology. The BCAN PSN provides a successful example of anengagement infrastructure for annual research prioritization in bladder cancer.The creation of an engagement network sets the groundwork for additional phasesof engagement, including design, conduct, and dissemination. Cancer 2018. © 2018American Cancer Society.
© 2018 American Cancer Society.
