Ann Thorac Surg. 2018 Aug;106(2):382-389. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.03.062.Epub 2018 Apr 30.
The Persistent Problem of Local/Regional Failure After Surgical Intervention forEarly-Stage Lung Cancer.
Judy GD(1), Kaidar-Person O(2), Deal A(3), Wang Y(3), Migliardi A(4), Long J(5),Haithcock B(5), Marks LB(6).
Author information:(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina Hospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Electronicaddress: gregory.judy@unchealth.unc.edu.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina Hospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; RadiationOncology Unit, Oncology Institute, Rambam Medical Campus, Haifa, Israel.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North CarolinaHospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(4)The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(5)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of NorthCarolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina School ofMedicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina Hospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
BACKGROUND: The goal of the present study was to estimate the rate oflocal/regional failure (LRF) after definitive surgical intervention forearly-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), without postoperativeradiotherapy, in the era of contemporary imaging and minimally invasive surgicaltechniques.METHODS: Medical records of patients with early-stage NSCLC (pathologic T1-4,N0-1) who underwent lobectomy, sleeve lobectomy, bilobectomy, or pneumonectomy,with or without adjuvant chemotherapy, between 2007 and 2015, wereretrospectively reviewed. LRF was defined as recurrence at the ipsilateral lung,bronchial stump, mediastinum, chest wall, or supraclavicular region. TheKaplan-Meier method was used to estimate time to LRF, with patients censored atdeath, and log-rank tests were used for comparisons. A two-sided p value of lessthan 0.05 was considered significant.RESULTS: Included were 217 patients (median age, 65 years). Preoperative stagingwith positron emission tomography/computed tomography was performed in 89% ofpatients, mediastinoscopy was performed in 42%, and video-assisted thoracoscopicsurgery was performed in 51%. At a median follow-up of 36 months (range, 1 to 120months), the 5-year estimated LRF was 26% (95% confidence interval, 20% to 35%).LRF rates were not significantly different in those with and without stagingpositron emission tomography/computed tomography (hazard ratio, 1.52; p = 0.43)and those with video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery versus open thoracotomy(hazard ratio, 1.00; p = 0.99).CONCLUSIONS: Despite contemporary staging procedures and surgical techniques forearly-stage NSCLC, LRF occurs in approximately 1 of 4 patients. The observedrates of LRF are similar to those reported more than a decade ago, suggestingthat local/regional control remains a persistent problem. The use of additionallocal treatments, such as radiotherapy, should be reevaluated to further improveoutcomes.
Copyright © 2018 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. Allrights reserved.
