Urol Oncol. 2018 Jun;36(6):308.e1-308.e9. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2018.03.005.Epub 2018 Mar 19.
The relationship of travel distance with cystectomy access and outcomes.
Smith AB(1), Meyer AM(2), Meng K(2), Nielsen ME(3), Pruthi R(4), Wallen E(4),Woods M(4), Tan HJ(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC; Department of Urology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,Multidisciplinary Genitourinary Oncology, Chapel Hill, NC. Electronic address:angela_smith@med.unc.edu.(2)Department of Urology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, IntegratedCancer Information and Surveillance System, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.(3)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC; Department of Urology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,Multidisciplinary Genitourinary Oncology, Chapel Hill, NC; Departments ofEpidemiology and Health Policy & Management, Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.(4)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC; Department of Urology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,Multidisciplinary Genitourinary Oncology, Chapel Hill, NC.
PURPOSE: Regionalization of care and travel distance may result in unintendedconsequences for complex surgery such as cystectomy. Our objective was toevaluate effect of differential distance on cystectomy receipt among patientswith muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) and investigate the associationbetween travel distance and cystectomy outcomes such as readmission.METHODS: Using a linked data resource combining the NC Central Cancer Registrywith claims data from Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurance plans, weincluded 736 patients with MIBC and 1,082 who underwent cystectomy. To evaluateaccess, differential distance was calculated as the difference between thenearest urologist and nearest cystectomy provider. To assess outcomes, logisticregression was used to evaluate rehospitalization and major complications, andCox proportional hazards model for survival analysis.RESULTS: To evaluate access and outcomes, 736 patients with MIBC and 1,082patients undergoing cystectomy were evaluated, respectively. Overall, 29% (211 of736) with MIBC underwent cystectomy. Differential distance was not a predictor ofcystectomy receipt (odds ratio = 1.0; 95% CI: 1.00, 1.01). Among patientsundergoing cystectomy, travel distance from cystectomy provider was not asignificant predictor of 30- or 31 to 90day readmissions (odds ratio = 1.0; 95%CI: 1.00, 1.00) although patients who lived further from their cystectomyprovider were more likely to be readmitted to a nonindex hospital (P<0.001) whencontrolling for other factors. Although travel distance did not have asignificant effect on overall survival, patients readmitted between 31 to 90dayshad worse overall survival (P<0.0001).CONCLUSIONS: The additional distance needed to reach a cystectomy provider didnot predict receipt of surgery for MIBC. Furthermore, travel distance fromcystectomy provider was not a significant predictor for subsequent readmissionafter cystectomy and did not affect overall survival.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
