Cancer. 2018 Jul 15;124(14):2986-2992. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31526. Epub 2018 May 9.
Phase 2 trial of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and transoral endoscopic surgery withrisk-adapted adjuvant therapy for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Weiss JM(1), Grilley-Olson JE(1), Deal AM(2), Zevallos JP(3), Chera BS(4), PaulJ(1), Knowles MF(4), Usenko D(1), Weissler MC(5), Patel S(5), Hayes DN(6),Hackman T(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Centerat the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(2)Lineberger Cancer Center at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,North Carolina.(3)Head and Neck Surgical Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, StLouis, Missouri.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center atthe University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(5)Division of Head and Neck Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology, LinebergerComprehensive Cancer Center at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,North Carolina.(6)West Cancer Center, Germantown, Tennessee.
BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to demonstrate the feasibility andefficacy of induction chemotherapy, surgery, and pathology-guided adjuvanttherapy to treat transorally resectable squamous head and neck cancer.METHODS: Patients had squamous head and neck cancer that was resectable by thetransoral route and advanced-stage disease (American Joint Committee on Cancerstage III-IV, T3-T4 tumors, and/or positive lymph nodes). They received treatmentwith weekly carboplatin at an area under the curve of 2, plus paclitaxel135 mg/m2 , and daily lapatinib 1000mg for 6 weeks followed by surgicalresection. Pathology that revealed margins <5 mm, extracapsular extension, N2a ofN2b lymph node status, perineural invasion, or lymphovascular space invasionresulted in adjuvant radiotherapy concurrent with weekly cisplatin. Pathologywith N2c/N3 lymph node status or positive margins resulted in radiation withbolus cisplatin. The primary endpoint was the clinical response rate to inductionchemotherapy, and a key secondary endpoint was feasibility.RESULTS: Toxicity was modest, and 37 of 40 patients completed study procedures asplanned. The clinical response rate was 93%, the pathologic complete responserate was 36%, and the clinical response did not predict for a pathologic completeresponse. No patient on study follow-up has recurred or died. Twenty-nine of 39patients who underwent surgery avoided radiation. Speech and swallowing functionwere well preserved.CONCLUSIONS: The study met both its primary efficacy endpoint and the secondaryfeasibility endpoint. Neoadjuvant, systemic therapy and surgical resectionfollowed by risk-adapted adjuvant therapy resulted in high response rates andexcellent long-term outcomes and should be further studied. Cancer2018;124:2986-92. © 2018 American Cancer Society.
© 2018 American Cancer Society.
