Thromb Res. 2018 Jun;166:54-59. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2018.04.009. Epub 2018Apr 10.
Extracellular vesicles exposing tissue factor for the prediction of venousthromboembolism in patients with cancer: A prospective cohort study.
van Es N(1), Hisada Y(2), Di Nisio M(3), Cesarman G(4), Kleinjan A(5), Mahé I(6),Otten HM(7), Kamphuisen PW(8), Berckmans RJ(9), Büller HR(5), Mackman N(2),Nieuwland R(9).
Author information:(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands. Electronic address: n.vanes@amc.nl.(2)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Medicine and Ageing Sciences, G. D'Annunzio University, Chieti,Italy.(4)Department of Hematology, National Cancer Institute Mexico, Mexico City,Mexico.(5)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands.(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Hopital Louis Mourier, Paris, France.(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Slotervaart Hospital, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands.(8)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Groningen,Groningen, The Netherlands; Department of Internal Medicine, Tergooi Hospital,Hilversum, The Netherlands.(9)Laboratory of Experimental Clinical Chemistry, Vesicle Observation Centre,Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
INTRODUCTION: The procoagulant activity of extracellular vesicles (EV) exposingtissue factor (TF) is a promising biomarker for venous thromboembolism (VTE) incancer patients. We evaluated an in-house EV-TF activity assay (the fibringeneration test) for the prediction of cancer-associated VTE. We also comparedthe results with the fibrin generation tests to an EV-TF-dependent factor Xageneration assay in samples from pancreatic cancer patients.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data collected in a multinational, prospective cohortstudy were used. Patients with various types of advanced cancer were enrolled ifchemotherapy was scheduled or started in the previous 3 months. Patients werefollowed for 6 months for the occurrence of VTE. The fibrin generation test wasperformed at baseline to measure EV-TF procoagulant activity.RESULTS: The fibrin generation test was performed in 648 patients with advancedcancer. The mean age was 62 years; 58% had distant metastasis. Forty patients(6.1%) developed VTE. Overall, a high fibrin generation test result wasassociated with a two-fold increased risk for VTE (HR 2.0; 95%-CI, 1.1-3.6). Theassociation was stronger in patients with pancreatic cancer (HR 4.1; 95%-CI,0.91-19) than in those with other tumor types (HR 1.5; 95%-CI, 0.72-3.1).Correlation between the FGT and the TF-dependent factor Xa generation assay inpatients with pancreatic cancer was poor (Spearman's R = 0.35).CONCLUSION: This study shows that a high EV-TF procoagulant activity as measuredby the fibrin generation test is associated with an increased risk of VTE incancer patients, in particular in those with pancreatic cancer. Future studiesshould aim to further improve the feasibility and accuracy of EV-TF activityassays.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
