Biomaterials. 2018 Sep;178:546-558. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.03.056. Epub2018 Apr 5.
Advances in transformable drug delivery systems.
Hu Q(1), Chen Q(1), Gu Z(2).
Author information:(1)Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill and North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA; Divisionof Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics and Center for Nanotechnologyin Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.(2)Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill and North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA; Divisionof Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics and Center for Nanotechnologyin Drug Delivery, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA; Department of Medicine, University ofNorth Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. Electronicaddress: zgu@email.unc.edu.
These years, transformable drug delivery systems (DDSs), which hold thecapability of changing formulation morphology and subsequent functionality at thedesired disease site, have shown great promise in control of spatio-temporal drugdelivery/release manner and enhanced treatment efficacy. Equipped withcontrollability and design flexibility, the transformable DDSs are beingincreasingly pursued for the development of precision drug delivery platforms forbiomedical applications. In this review, we describe the recently developedintracelluarly and extracellularly transformable DDSs, especially associated withassembly or disassociation of the original formulation units, for achievingvarious functionalities, including prolonged retention time, inhibitedendocytosis and enhanced cytotoxicity. Furthermore, the different stimuli, suchas pH, enzyme, light, temperature, redox and mechanical force that trigger thetransformation process are also introduced. The future outlook and challenges arediscussed in the end.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
