Cancer. 2018 Jun 15;124(12):2629-2636. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31330. Epub 2018 May 6.
Understanding health-related quality of life in adult women with metastaticcancer who have dependent children.
Park EM(1)(2), Deal AM(2), Yopp JM(1), Edwards T(3), Resnick SJ(4), Song MK(5),Nakamura ZM(1), Rosenstein DL(1)(2)(6).
Author information:(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, North Carolina.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)H. W. Odum Institute for Research in Social Science, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(4)School of Medicine, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons,New York, New York.(5)Center for Excellence in Palliative Care, Nell Hodgson Woodruff School ofNursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.(6)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, North Carolina.
BACKGROUND: Cancer is a leading cause of death among women of parenting age inthe United States. Women living with advanced or incurable cancer who havedependent children experience high rates of depression and anxiety as well asunique parenting challenges. To the authors' knowledge, few studies to date haveexamined the parenting factors associated with health-related quality of life(HRQOL) in women with advanced cancer.METHODS: The authors conducted a cross-sectional, Web-based survey of thepsychosocial concerns of 224 women with a tumor-node-metastasis staging system ofthe AJCC stage IV solid tumor malignancy who had at least 1 child aged <18 years.Participants completed validated measures of HRQOL (Functional Assessment ofCancer Therapy-General [FACT-G]); depression and anxiety symptom severity;functional status; parenting concerns; and investigator-designed questions toassess demographic, communication, and parenting characteristics. Multiple linearregression models were estimated to identify factors associated with FACT-G totaland subscale scores.RESULTS: The mean FACT-G score was 66 (standard deviation, 16). The meanEmotional Well-Being subscale scores were particularly low (13; standarddeviation, 5). In multivariable linear regression models, parenting variablesexplained nearly 40% of the HRQOL model variance. In the fully adjusted model,parenting concerns and the absence of parental prognostic communication withchildren both were found to be significantly associated with HRQOL scores. Foreach 1-point increase in parenting concern severity, FACT-G scores decreased by 4points (P = .003).CONCLUSIONS: Women with metastatic cancer who are parents of dependent childrenare at risk of high psychological distress and low HRQOL. Parenting factors mayhave a negative influence on HRQOL in this patient population. Cancer2018;124:2629-36. © 2018 American Cancer Society.
© 2018 American Cancer Society.
