Cancer. 2018 Jun 1;124(11):2278-2288. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31265. Epub 2018 Feb 16.
Barriers to accessing palliative care for pediatric patients with cancer: Areview of the literature.
Haines ER(1)(2), Frost AC(3), Kane HL(3), Rokoske FS(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NorthCarolina.(2)End-of-Life, Hospice, and Palliative Care Program, RTI International, ResearchTriangle Park, North Carolina.(3)Child and Adolescent Research and Evaluation Program, RTI International,Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.
Although many of the 16,000 children in the United States diagnosed who are withcancer each year could benefit from pediatric palliative care, these servicesremain underused. Evidence regarding the barriers impeding access tocomprehensive palliative care is dispersed in the literature, and evidencespecific to pediatric oncology remains particularly sparse. The purpose of thecurrent review was to synthesize the existing literature regarding these barriersand the strategies offered to address them. The authors completed a literaturesearch using the PubMed, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature(CINAHL), and Web of Science databases. In total, 71 articles were reviewed.Barriers to accessing pediatric palliative care were categorized according to the4 levels of a modified socioecological model (ie, barriers related topolicy/payment, health systems, organizations, and individuals). Major themesidentified at each level included: 1) the lack of consistent and adequate fundingmechanisms at the policy/payment level, 2) the lack of pediatric palliative careprograms and workforce at the health systems level, 3) difficulties integratingpalliative care into existing pediatric oncology care models at theorganizational level, and 4) the lack of knowledge about pediatric palliativecare, discomfort with talking about death, and cultural differences betweenproviders and patients and their families at the individual level.Recommendations to address each of the barriers identified in the literature areincluded. Cancer 2018;124:2278-88. © 2018 American Cancer Society.
© 2018 American Cancer Society.
