Support Care Cancer. 2018 Oct 6. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4479-4. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Peer support opportunities across the cancer care continuum: a systematic scopingreview of recent peer-reviewed literature.
Kowitt SD(1), Ellis KR(2), Carlisle V(3)(4), Bhushan NL(4)(5), Black KZ(6),Brodar K(7), Cranley NM(5), Davis KL(8), Eng E(3)(5), Martin MY(9), McGuirtJ(10), Sokol RL(5), Tang PY(4)(5), Vines AI(3)(11), Walker JS(12), FisherEB(3)(4)(5).
Author information:(1)Department of Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. kowitt@unc.edu.(2)School of Social Work, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(4)Peers for Progress, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(6)Department of Health Education and Promotion, College of Health and HumanPerformance, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, USA.(7)Department of Psychology, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL, USA.(8)Division of Public Health Sciences, Washington University School of Medicine,St. Louis, MO, USA.(9)Center for Innovation in Health Equity Research and Department of PreventiveMedicine, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, USA.(10)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Greensboro,Greensboro, NC, USA.(11)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(12)Health Sciences Library, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA.
OBJECTIVE: Evidence suggests peer support (PS) is as an effective strategy forenhancing prevention and control of chronic and infectious diseases, includingcancer. This systematic scoping review examines the range and variety ofinterventions on the use of PS across the cancer care continuum.METHOD: We used a broad definition of PS to capture a wide-range of interventionsand characterize the current status of the field. Literature searches wereconducted using PubMed, SCOPUS, and CINAHL to identify relevant articlespublished from January 2011 to June 2016. We screened the title and abstracts of2087 articles, followed by full-text screening of 420 articles, resulting in afinal sample of 242 articles of which the most recent 100 articles were reviewed(published June 2014 to May 2016).RESULTS: A number of the recent intervention studies focused on breast cancer(32%, breast cancer only) or multiple cancer sites (23%). Although theinterventions spanned all phases of the cancer care continuum, only 2% targetedend-of-life care. Seventy-six percent focused on clinical outcomes (e.g.,screening, treatment adherence) and 72% on reducing health disparities.Interventions were primarily phone-based (44%) or delivered in a clinic setting(44%). Only a few studies (22%) described the impact of providing PS on peersupporters.CONCLUSION: PS appears to be a widely used approach to address needs across thecancer care continuum, with many opportunities to expand its reach.
