Mod Pathol. 2018 Jul;31(7):1085-1096. doi: 10.1038/s41379-018-0033-7. Epub 2018Feb 20.
Stroma modifies relationships between risk factor exposure and age-relatedepithelial involution in benign breast.
Chollet-Hinton L(1), Puvanesarajah S(1), Sandhu R(2), Kirk EL(1), Midkiff BR(2),Ghosh K(3), Brandt KR(4), Scott CG(5), Gierach GL(6), Sherman ME(6), VachonCM(7), Troester MA(8)(9)(10).
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester,MN, USA.(4)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA.(5)Division of Biostatistics, Department of Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic Collegeof Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA.(6)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute,Bethesda, MD, USA.(7)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic Collegeof Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA.(8)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, USA. troester@unc.edu.(9)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. troester@unc.edu.(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of North Carolinaat Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. troester@unc.edu.
Delayed age-related lobular involution has been previously associated withelevated breast cancer risk. However, intraindividual variability in epithelialinvolution status within a woman is undefined. We developed a novel measure ofage-related epithelial involution, density of epithelial nuclei in epithelialareas using digital image analysis in combination with stromal characteristics(percentage of section area comprising stroma). Approximately 1800 hematoxylinand eosin stained sections of benign breast tissue were evaluated from 416participants having breast surgery for cancer or benign conditions. Two tosixteen slides per woman from different regions of the breast were studied.Epithelial involution status varied within a woman and as a function of stromalarea. Percentage stromal area varied between samples from the same woman (mediandifference between highest and lowest stromal area within a woman was 7.5%, butranged from 0.01 to 86.7%). Restricting to women with at least 10% stromal area(N = 317), epithelial nuclear density decreased with age (-637.1 cells/mm2 perdecade of life after age 40, p < 0.0001), increased with mammographic density(457.8 cells/mm2 per increasing BI-RADs density category p = 0.002), andincreased non-significantly with recent parity, later age at first pregnancy, andlonger and more recent oral contraceptive use. These associations were attenuatedin women with mostly fat samples (<10% stroma (N = 99)). Thirty-one percent ofwomen evaluated had both adequate stroma (≥10%) and mostly fat (<10% stroma)regions of breast tissue, with the probability of having both types increasingwith the number breast tissue samplings. Several breast cancer risk factors areassociated with elevated age-related epithelial content, but associations dependupon stromal context. Stromal characteristics appear to modify relationshipsbetween risk factor exposures and breast epithelial involution.
