Health Educ Behav. 2018 Oct;45(5):790-799. doi: 10.1177/1090198117744242. Epub2017 Dec 28.
Perceptions of Cancer Risk/Efficacy and Cancer-Related Risk Behaviors: ResultsFrom the HCHS/SOL Sociocultural Ancillary Study.
Fox RS(1)(2), Mills SD(2), Roesch SC(2)(3), Sotres-Alvarez D(4), Gonzalez P(3),Bekteshi V(5), Cai J(4), Lounsbury DW(6), Talavera GA(7), Penedo FJ(1), MalcarneVL(2)(3).
Author information:(1)1 Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(2)2 San Diego State University/University of California, San Diego JointDoctoral Program in Clinical Psychology, San Diego, CA, USA.(3)3 San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, USA.(4)4 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)5 University of York, York, UK.(6)6 Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.(7)7 South Bay Latino Research Center, Chula Vista, CA, USA.
This study evaluated the associations among perceived risk, perceived efficacy,and engagement in six cancer-related risk behaviors in a population-basedHispanic/Latino sample. Interviews were conducted with 5,313 Hispanic/Latinoadults as part of the Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos (HCHS/SOL)Sociocultural Ancillary Study. Participants were recruited from the study's fourfield centers (Bronx, NY; Chicago, IL; Miami, FL; San Diego, CA) between February2010 and June 2011. Perceived risk and perceived efficacy were assessed withquestions drawn from the Health Interview National Trends Survey. More than halfof the sample endorsed perceived risk of cancer associated with the six evaluatedbehaviors, as well as general perceived efficacy for preventing cancer. Adjustedlogistic regression analyses demonstrated significant differences acrossHispanic/Latino background groups for perceived risk associated with highconsumption of alcohol and saturated fat, low consumption of fruits andvegetables, and insufficient exercise but not with smoking or low consumption offiber. Differences were also found for the belief, "It seems like everythingcauses cancer" but not for other perceived efficacy items. Perceived cancer riskand perceived efficacy for preventing cancer were neither independently norinteractively associated with engagement in cancer-related risk behaviors aftercontrolling for sociodemographic covariates. Results suggest that perceptions ofrisk and efficacy with regard to cancer vary across Hispanic/Latino backgroundgroups, and therefore background group differences should be considered inprevention efforts. Perceived risk and perceived efficacy were not related tocancer-related risk behaviors among Hispanics/Latinos. Further work is needed toevaluate determinants of cancer-related risk in this population.
