Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2018 Jun;50(6):1169-1176. doi:10.1249/MSS.0000000000001544.
Exercise Protects against Cancer-induced Cardiac Cachexia.
Parry TL(1), Hayward R(2).
Author information:(1)McAllister Heart Institute and Department of Pathology and LaboratoryMedicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(2)School of Sport and Exercise Science, and the University of Northern ColoradoCancer Rehabilitation Institute, University of Northern Colorado, Greeley, CO.
Cancer has been shown to negatively stimulate autophagy, leading to a decline incardiac function. Although exercise is cardioprotective, its influence overautophagy-mediated tumor growth and cardiac function are not welldefined.PURPOSE: This study aimed to determine the effect of exercise on tumormorphology and cardiac function.METHODS: Fisher 344 rats (n = 28) were assigned to one of four groups: 1)sedentary non-tumor bearing (SED), 2) sedentary tumor bearing (SED + T), 3) wheelrun non-tumor bearing (WR), or 4) wheel run tumor bearing (WR + T). Rats remainedsedentary or exercised for 6 wk. At week 4, rats in tumor groups were inoculatedwith MatBIII tumor cells. At week 6, cardiac function was measured.RESULTS: SED + T animals exhibited significantly lower left ventricular developedpressure when compared with SED, WR, and WR + T (P < 0.05). This coincided with asignificant increase in cardiac autophagy (increased LC3-II) in SED + T animalswhen compared with SED, WR, and WR + T (P < 0.05). Furthermore, SED + T heartsshowed a significant increase in β-myosin heavy chain expression versus nontumorgroups (P < 0.05). Tumor mass was significantly larger (P < 0.001) in SED + Tanimals when compared with WR + T animals, which was accompanied by a significantincrease in tumor LC3-II protein expression (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: Nonexercised tumor-bearing rats showed severe cardiac dysfunction andexcessive, maladaptive autophagy in the heart and tumors. Voluntary exercisepreserved cardiac function and attenuated the autophagic response in heart andtumor tissues. This preservation may be related to the reduced tumor growth inaerobically exercised rats, to the improved regulation of autophagy by exercise,or both.
