Clin Breast Cancer. 2018 Aug;18(4):313-319. doi: 10.1016/j.clbc.2017.11.021. Epub2017 Dec 7.
Role of Age, Tumor Grade, and Radiation Therapy on Immediate PostmastectomyBreast Reconstruction.
Reddy KG(1), Strassle PD(2), McGuire KP(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Divisionof Plastic Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC. Electronicaddress: Karishma.Reddy@unchealth.unc.edu.(2)Department of Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC;Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health, Universityof North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(3)Department of Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Divisionof Surgical Oncology, Massey Cancer Center, Virginia Commonwealth University,Richmond, VA.
BACKGROUND: Despite the psychological benefits and oncologic safety ofpostmastectomy breast reconstruction, most breast cancer patients do not undergoreconstruction. To better understand the patterns of breast reconstruction usage,it is important to identify the clinicopathologic factors associated withimmediate breast reconstruction (IBR), and whether modification of thereconstruction incidence when stratified by patient- or cancer-related factorsexists in the breast cancer population. The primary objectives were to determinewhether the incidence of immediate postmastectomy breast reconstruction variesacross age, and whether the tumor grade or radiation therapy modify the effect ofage on the incidence of immediate breast reconstruction.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Resultsdatabase, we identified women who had undergone mastectomy for breast cancer from2000 to 2014. Inverse probability of treatment-weighted log-binomial regressionwas used to estimate the effect of age on IBR after accounting for potentialconfounding by patient demographic data and cancer characteristics. Potentialeffect measure modification by tumor grade and radiation therapy on the age-IBRrelationship was also assessed.RESULTS: Of 321,206 women, 77,798 (24.2%) had undergone IBR. Age wassignificantly associated with IBR prevalence (P < .0001), with younger women morelikely to undergo IBR. Both tumor grade (P < .0001) and radiation therapy (P <.0001) modified the effect of age on IBR.CONCLUSION: Compared with their older counterparts, younger breast cancerpatients were more likely to undergo IBR, and both tumor grade and radiationtherapy were differentially associated with the likelihood of IBR across patientage.
Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
