Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul;25(7):1828-1835. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6361-5. Epub2018 Feb 7.
Implementing a Program of Talimogene laherparepvec.
Collichio F(1), Burke L(2), Proctor A(3), Wallack D(4), Collichio A(5), LongPK(6), Ollila DW(6).
Author information:(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, The University ofNorth Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. fcollich@med.unc.edu.(2)Department of Radiology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC,USA.(3)Department of Pharmacy, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC,USA.(4)The Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.(6)Division of Surgical Oncology, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,NC, USA.
BACKGROUND: Oncolytic viruses are genetically engineered or naturally occurringviruses that selectively replicate in cancer cells without harming normal cells.Talimogene laherparepvec (Imlygic®), the first oncolytic viral therapy approvedfor treatment of cancer, was approved for treatment of locally advanced melanomain October 2015.PURPOSE: As a biologic product, use of T. laherparepvec in the clinical settingrequires pretreatment planning and a unique systematic approach to deliver thetherapy. The processes we describe herein could be adopted by other centers thatchoose to prescribe T. laherparepvec.METHODS: We studied our clinical trial experience with T. laherparepvec before weembarked on using commercially available T. laherparepvec. We created a standardoperating procedure (SOP) with multidisciplinary buy-in and oversight fromleadership in Infection Control at our institution. We reflected on clinicalcases and the actual procedures of administering T. laherparepvec to create theSOP.RESULTS: The preimplementation planning, patient selection, identification oflesions to treat, the actual procedure, and ongoing assessment of patients aredescribed. Tumoral-related factors that lead to unique challenges are described.CONCLUSIONS: A process to ensure safe and responsible implementation of a programto administer T. laherparepvec for treatment of melanoma may improve the qualityof treatment for patients who suffer from advanced melanoma.
