Gastroenterology. 2018 Jun;154(8):2068-2086.e5. doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2018.02.022. Epub 2018 Feb 16.
The Effect of Endoscopic Surveillance in Patients With Barrett's Esophagus: ASystematic Review and Meta-analysis.
Codipilly DC(1), Chandar AK(2), Singh S(3), Wani S(4), Shaheen NJ(5), InadomiJM(6), Chak A(2), Iyer PG(7).
Author information:(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases, Case Western ReserveUniversity, Cleveland, Ohio.(3)Division of Gastroenterology, University of California San Diego, San Diego,California.(4)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Colorado AnschutzMedical Campus, Aurora, Colorado.(5)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(6)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.(7)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,Minnesota. Electronic address: Iyer.Prasad@mayo.edu.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Guidelines recommend endoscopic surveillance of patients withBarrett's esophagus (BE) to identify those with dysplasia (a precursor ofcarcinoma) or early-stage esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) who can be treatedendoscopically. However, it is unclear whether surveillance increases survivaltimes of patients with BE. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis toqualitatively and quantitatively examine evidence for the association ofendoscopic surveillance in patients with BE with survival and other outcomes.METHODS: We searched publication databases for studies reporting the effects ofendoscopic surveillance on mortality and other EAC-related outcomes. We reviewedrandomized controlled trials, case-control studies, studies comparing patientswith BE who received regular surveillance with those who did not receive regularsurveillance, and studies comparing outcomes of patients withsurveillance-detected EAC vs symptom-detected EACs. We performed a meta-analysisof surveillance studies to generate summary estimates using a random effectsmodel. The primary aim was to examine the association of BE surveillance onEAC-related mortality. Secondary aims were to examine the association of BEsurveillance with all-cause mortality and EAC stage at time of diagnosis.RESULTS: A single case-control study did not show any association betweensurveillance and EAC-related mortality. A meta-analysis of 4 cohort studies foundthat lower EAC-related and all-cause mortality were associated with regularsurveillance (relative risk, 0.60; 95% CI, 0.50-0.71; hazard ratio, 0.75; 95% CI,0.59-0.94). Meta-analysis of 12 cohort studies showed lower EAC-related andall-cause mortality among patients with surveillance-detected EAC vssymptom-detected EAC (relative risk, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.57-0.94; hazard ratio, 0.59;95% CI, 0.45-0.76). Lead- and length-time bias adjustment substantiallyattenuated/eliminated the observed benefits. Surveillance was associated withdetection of EAC at earlier stages. A randomized trial is underway to evaluatethe effects of endoscopic surveillance on mortality in patients with BE.CONCLUSIONS: In a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effects ofsurveillance in patients with BE, surveillance as currently performed wasassociated with detection of earlier-stage EAC and may provide a small survivalbenefit. However, the effects of confounding biases on these estimates are notfully defined and may completely or partially explain the observed differencesbetween surveyed and unsurveyed patients.
Copyright © 2018 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
