

50. Nat Biomed Eng. 2018;2:443-452. Epub 2018 Apr 23.

Organ-specific metastases obtained by culturing colorectal cancer cells on
tissue-specific decellularized scaffolds.

Tian X(1), Werner ME(1), Roche KC(1), Hanson AD(2), Foote HP(1), Yu SK(1), Warner
SB(1), Copp JA(1), Lara H(1), Wauthier EL(2), Caster JM(1), Herring LE(3), Zhang 
L(4), Tepper JE(1), Hsu DS(5), Zhang T(5), Reid LM(2), Wang AZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Nano- and Translational Medicine, Department of Radiation
Oncology Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Carolina Center for Cancer
Nanotechnology Excellence, Carolina Institute of Nanomedicine, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(2)Department of Cell and Molecular Physiology, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, UNC Proteomics Core Facility, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(4)Jiangsu Center for the Collaboration and Innovation of Cancer Biotherapy,
Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical College, Cancer Institute of Xuzhou Medical
College, Jiangsu, China.
(5)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Duke Cancer Institute,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27705.

Metastatic disease remains the primary cause of mortality in cancer patients. Yet
the number of available in vitro models to study metastasis is limited by
challenges in the recapitulation of the metastatic microenvironment in vitro, and
by difficulties in maintaining colonized-tissue specificity in the expansion and 
maintenance of metastatic cells. Here, we show that decellularized scaffolds that
retain tissue-specific extracellular-matrix (ECM) components and bound signaling 
molecules enable, when seeded with colorectal cancer (CRC) cells, the spontaneous
formation of three-dimensional cell colonies that histologically, molecularly and
phenotypically resemble in vivo metastases. Lung and liver metastases obtained by
culturing CRC cells on, respectively, liver and lung decellularized scaffolds
retained their tissue-specific tropism when injected in mice. We also found that 
the engineered metastases contained signet ring cells, which has not previously
been observed ex vivo. A culture system with tissue-specific decellularized
scaffolds represents a simple and powerful approach for the study of
organ-specific cancer metastases.


PMCID: PMC6166886
PMID: 30288339 
