SSM Popul Health. 2018 Sep 25;6:158-168. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2018.09.009.eCollection 2018 Dec.
Canadian report card on health equity across the life-course: Analysis of timetrends and cross-national comparisons with the United Kingdom.
Blair A(1)(2)(3), Siddiqi A(4)(5), Frank J(3)(6).
Author information:(1)Département de Médecine Sociale et Préventive, École de Santé Publique,Université de Montréal, 7101 Park Ave, Montréal, Québec, Canada H3N 1X9.(2)Centre de Recherche du Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal(CRCHUM), 850 St Denis St, Montréal, Québec, Canada H2X 0A9.(3)Scottish Collaboration for Public Health Research and Policy, University ofEdinburgh, 20 West Richmond Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DX, United Kingdom.(4)Division of Epidemiology, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University ofToronto, 155 College Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5T 3M7.(5)Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 302 Rosenau Hall, CB #7440, ChapelHill, NC 27599-7440, United States.(6)Usher Institute of Population Health Sciences and Informatics, University ofEdinburgh, Old Medical School, Teviot Place, Edinburgh EH8 9AG, United Kingdom.
Addressing social determinants of health (SDoH) has been acknowledged as anessential objective for the promotion of both population health and healthequity. Extant literature has identified seven potential areas of investment toaddress SDoH: investments in sexual and reproductive health and family planning,early learning and child care, education, universal health care, as well asinvestments to reduce child poverty, ensure sustainable economic development, andcontrol health hazards. The aim of this paper is to produce a 'report card' onCanada's success in reducing socioeconomic and health inequities pertaining tothese seven policy domains, and to assess how Canadian trends compare to those inthe United Kingdom (UK), a country with a similar health and welfare system.Summarising evidence from published studies and national statistics, we foundthat Canada's best successes were in reducing socioeconomic inequalities in earlylearning and child care and reproductive health-specifically in improving equityin maternal employment and infant mortality. Comparative data suggest thatCanada's outcomes in the latter areas were like those in the UK. In contrast,Canada's least promising equity outcomes were in relation to health hazardcontrol (specifically, tobacco) and child poverty. Though Canada and the UKobserved similar inequities in smoking, Canada's slow upward trend in childpoverty prevalence is distinct from the UK's small but steady reduction of childpoverty. This divergence from the UK's trends indicates that alternativeinvestment types and levels may be needed in Canada to achieve similar outcomesto those in the UK.
