Biol Reprod. 2018 Aug 1;99(2):293-307. doi: 10.1093/biolre/ioy030.
Effects of histone methyltransferase inhibition in endometriosis.
Colón-Caraballo M(1), Torres-Reverón A(2), Soto-Vargas JL(3), Young SL(4), LesseyB(4), Mendoza A(5)(6), Urrutia R(7), Flores I(1)(8).
Author information:(1)Department of Basic Sciences-Microbiology Division, Ponce Health SciencesUniversity, Ponce, Puerto Rico, USA.(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Division of Neurosciences, University ofTexas at Rio Grande Valley-School of Medicine, Texas, USA.(3)Department of Basic Sciences-Microbiology Division, Step-Up Summer Program,Ponce, Puerto Rico, USA.(4)Department of Ob/Gyn, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, USA.(5)Southern Pathology Inc., Ponce, Puerto Rico, USA.(6)Department of Basic Sciences-Pathology Division, Ponce Health SciencesUniversity, Ponce, Puerto Rico, USA.(7)Epigenetics and Chromatin Dynamics Research Program, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,Minnesota, USA.(8)Department of Ob/Gyn, Ponce, Puerto Rico, USA.
Although the histone methyltransferase EZH2 and its product H3K27me3 are wellstudied in cancer, little is known about their role and potential as therapeutictargets in endometriosis. We have previously reported that endometriotic lesionsare characterized by global enrichment of H3K27me3. Therefore, we aimed to (1)characterize the expression levels of EZH2 in endometriotic tissues; (2) assessH3K27me3 enrichment in candidate genes promoter regions; and (3) determine ifpharmacological inhibition of EZH2 impacts migration, proliferation, and invasionof endometriotic cells. Immunohistochemistry of an endometriosis-focused tissuemicroarray was used to assess the EZH2 protein levels in tissues. Chromatinimmunoprecipitation-qPCR was conducted to assess enrichment of H3K27me3 incandidate gene promoter regions in tissues. Immunofluorescence was performed toassess the effect of an EZH2-specific pharmacological inhibitor on H3K27me3global enrichment in cell lines. To measure effects of the inhibitor inmigration, proliferation, and invasion in vitro we used Scratch, BrdU, andMatrigel assays, respectively. Endometriotic lesions had significantly higherEZH2α nuclear immunostaining levels compared to eutopic endometrium from patients(glands, stroma) and controls (glands). H3K27me3 was enriched within promoterregions of candidate genes in some but not all of the endometriotic lesions.Inhibition of EZH2 reduced H3K27me3 levels in the endometriotic cellsspecifically, and also reduced migration, proliferation but not invasion ofendometriotic epithelial cells (12Z). These findings support future preclinicalstudies to determine in vivo efficacy of EZH2 inhibitors as promising nonhormonaltreatments for endometriosis, still an incurable gynecological disease.
