Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: NTB has served as a paidexpert consultant in litigation against tobacco companies.
J Natl Cancer Inst. 2018 Jul 1;110(7):726-733. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djx270.
Intratumor Heterogeneity of the Estrogen Receptor and the Long-term Risk of FatalBreast Cancer.
Lindström LS(1), Yau C(2)(3), Czene K(4), Thompson CK(2), Hoadley KA(5), Van'tVeer LJ(6)(7), Balassanian R(6), Bishop JW(8), Carpenter PM(9)(10), Chen YY(6),Datnow B(11), Hasteh F(11), Krings G(6), Lin F(10), Zhang Y(8), NordenskjöldB(12), Stål O(12), Benz CC(2)(3), Fornander T(13), Borowsky AD(8), EssermanLJ(2); STO Trialists Group.
Author information:(1)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,Sweden.(2)Department of Surgery, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco,CA.(3)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, CA.(4)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden.(5)Department of Genetics, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.(6)Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, SanFrancisco, CA.(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California San Francisco, SanFrancisco, CA.(8)Center for Comparative Medicine, Department of Pathology and LaboratoryMedicine, University of California Davis, Davis, CA.(9)Department of Pathology, Keck School of Medicine, University of SouthernCalifornia, Los Angeles, CA.(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of CaliforniaIrvine, Irvine, CA.(11)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California SanDiego, La Jolla, CA.(12)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine and Department of Oncology,Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.(13)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
Background: Breast cancer patients with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive diseasehave a continuous long-term risk for fatal breast cancer, but the biologicalfactors influencing this risk are unknown. We aimed to determine whether highintratumor heterogeneity of ER predicts an increased long-term risk (25 years) offatal breast cancer.Methods: The STO-3 trial enrolled 1780 postmenopausal lymph node-negative breastcancer patients randomly assigned to receive adjuvant tamoxifen vs not. Thefraction of cancer cells for each ER intensity level was scored by breast cancerpathologists, and intratumor heterogeneity of ER was calculated using Rao'squadratic entropy and categorized into high and low heterogeneity using apredefined cutoff at the second tertile (67%). Long-term breast cancer-specificsurvival analyses by intra-tumor heterogeneity of ER were performed usingKaplan-Meier and multivariable Cox proportional hazard modeling adjusting forpatient and tumor characteristics.Results: A statistically significant difference in long-term survival by high vslow intratumor heterogeneity of ER was seen for all ER-positive patients (P <.001) and for patients with luminal A subtype tumors (P = .01). In multivariableanalyses, patients with high intratumor heterogeneity of ER had a twofoldincreased long-term risk as compared with patients with low intratumorheterogeneity (ER-positive: hazard ratio [HR] = 1.98, 95% confidence interval[CI] = 1.31 to 3.00; luminal A subtype tumors: HR = 2.43, 95% CI = 1.18 to 4.99).Conclusions: Patients with high intratumor heterogeneity of ER had an increasedlong-term risk of fatal breast cancer. Interestingly, a similar long-term riskincrease was seen in patients with luminal A subtype tumors. Our findings suggestthat intratumor heterogeneity of ER is an independent long-term prognosticatorwith potential to change clinical management, especially for patients withluminal A tumors.
