Nicotine Tob Res. 2018 Aug 14;20(9):1047-1054. doi: 10.1093/ntr/ntx109.
Effective Message Elements for Disclosures About Chemicals in Cigarette Smoke.
Kelley DE(1), Boynton MH(2)(3), Noar SM(1)(3), Morgan JC(2), Mendel JR(3), RibislKM(2)(3), Stepanov I(4), Nylander-French LA(5), Brewer NT(2)(3).
Author information:(1)School of Media and Journalism, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC.(2)Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC.(4)Division of Environmental Health Sciences, Department of Environmental HealthSciences, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.(5)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Gillings School ofGlobal Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC.
Introduction: Cigarette smoke contains at least 93 chemicals or "constituents"that the Food and Drug Administration has identified as harmful and potentiallyharmful constituents to human health. Our study sought to identify whichconstituent disclosure message elements are most effective in discouraging peoplefrom smoking.Methods: Three hundred eighty eight current smokers aged 18 and older completedan online survey in February 2015. We randomized participants to respond to oneof two sets of 13 toxic products that contain cigarette constituents and 25health effects associated with cigarette constituents.Results: Products that elicited the most discouragement were those with lowerchances of exposure (e.g., explosives), followed by products with possibleexposure (e.g., rat poison), and products with a high likelihood of exposure(e.g., floor cleaner). Awareness of toxic products that constituents are found in(p < .001) and low exposure products (p < .001) were associated with higherdiscouragement. Health effects that people had heard are caused by cigarettesmoke constituents elicited higher discouragement from smoking cigarettes (p <.001). Cancer was associated with higher discouragement relative to respiratory,cardiovascular, and reproductive health effects (all p < .001).Conclusions: Cigarette smoke constituent messages may be more effective atdiscouraging smoking if they include information about carcinogenic healtheffects (e.g., mouth cancer and lung tumors) and low exposure toxic products(e.g., explosives and radioactive material) as message elements.Implications: Our study identified health effects and toxic products, especiallycancers and rarely encountered toxic products, that may discourage smoking whenincluded in disclosure messages. By constructing messages that communicate theharms associated with tobacco use by contextualizing those harms in terms ofspecific constituents, tobacco education messaging efforts may be increasinglysuccessful.
