

47. Cancer. 2018 Oct 6. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31775. [Epub ahead of print]

Changes in cardiovascular disease risk and risk factors among women with and
without breast cancer.

Anderson C(1), Nichols HB(1), Deal AM(2), Park YM(3), Sandler DP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(2)Biostatistics and Clinical Data Management Core, University of North Carolina 
Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(3)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk is an important health concern
among survivors of breast cancer. However, few studies to date have examined
whether trajectories of CVD risk and major risk factors are worse among women
with a breast cancer diagnosis compared with those without.
METHODS: Changes in weight, body mass index, waist circumference, systolic blood 
pressure, and 10-year CVD risk were compared between women with (813 women) and
without (1049 women) an incident breast cancer diagnosis while they were enrolled
in the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences Sister Study cohort.
Blood pressure and adiposity measures were collected by trained examiners at an
enrollment visit (≥1 year before breast cancer diagnosis) and a second home visit
4 to 11 years later (≥1 year after breast cancer diagnosis). The
non-laboratory-based Framingham risk score, a measure of 10-year general CVD
risk, was calculated at both the enrollment and second visits. All analyses were 
stratified by menopausal status at the time of enrollment.
RESULTS: Women who were premenopausal at the time of enrollment experienced
moderate increases in weight, waist circumference, systolic blood pressure, and
CVD risk over the study period. Those who were postmenopausal at the time of
enrollment demonstrated little change in weight, but were found to have increases
in waist circumference, systolic blood pressure, and CVD risk. In both groups,
changes over time did not differ significantly according to breast cancer status.
Neither chemotherapy nor endocrine therapy were found to be associated with
greater increases in CVD risk or risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current study cohort, changes over time in CVD risk,
adiposity measures, and blood pressure were similar between women who developed
an incident breast cancer and those who did not.

© 2018 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.31775 
PMID: 30291812 
