J Geriatr Oncol. 2018 Jul;9(4):329-336. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2018.01.007. Epub 2018Feb 13.
The incremental value of a geriatric assessment-derived three-item scale onestimating overall survival in older adults with cancer.
Nishijima TF(1), Deal AM(2), Lund JL(3), Nyrop KA(4), Muss HB(5), Sanoff HK(6).
Author information:(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of Medicine, Division ofHematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC, USA. Electronic address: tomohiro_nishijima@med.unc.edu.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: Allison_Deal@med.unc.edu.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of Epidemiology, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address:jennifer.lund@unc.edu.(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of Medicine, Division ofHematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC, USA. Electronic address: kirsten_nyrop@med.unc.edu.(5)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of Medicine, Division ofHematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC, USA. Electronic address: hyman_muss@med.unc.edu.(6)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of Medicine, Division ofHematology/Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC, USA. Electronic address: hanna_sanoff@med.unc.edu.
OBJECTIVE: A geriatric assessment (GA) assesses functional age of older patientswith cancer and is a well-established tool predictive of toxicity and survival.The objective of this study was to investigate the prognostic value of individualGA items.MATERIALS AND METHODS: 546 patients with cancer ≥ 65 years completed GA from 2009to 2014 and were followed for survival status for a median of 3.7 years. The GAconsisted of function, nutrition, comorbidity, cognition, psychological state,and social activity/support domains. GA items with p < 0.05 in univariableanalyses for overall survival (OS) were entered into multivariable stepwiseselection procedure using a Cox proportional hazards model. A prognostic scalewas constructed with significant GA items retained in the final model.RESULTS: Median age was 72 years, 49% had breast cancer, and 42% had stage 3-4cancer. Three GA items were significant prognostic factors, independent oftraditional factors (cancer type, stage, age, and Karnofsky Performance Status):(1) "limitation in walking several blocks", (2) "limitation in shopping", and (3)"≥ 5% unintentional weight loss in 6 months". A three-item prognostic scale wasconstructed with these items. In comparison with score 0 (no positive items),hazard ratios for OS were 1.85 for score 1, 2.97 for score 2, and 8.67 for score3. This translated to 2-year estimated survivals of 85%, 67%, 51% and 17% forscores of 0, 1, 2 and 3, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: This three-item scale was a strong independent predictor ofsurvival. If externally validated, this could be a streamlined tool with broaderapplicability.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
