Tob Control. 2018 Nov;27(6):712-714. doi: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2017-054124.Epub 2018 Jan 23.
Public misperception that very low nicotine cigarettes are less carcinogenic.
Byron MJ(1)(2), Jeong M(2)(3), Abrams DB(4), Brewer NT(2)(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,North Carolina, USA.(2)Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, North Carolina, USA.(4)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, College of Global Public Health,New York University, New York City, New York, USA.
OBJECTIVE: The USA is considering a very low nicotine content (VLNC) cigarettestandard. We sought to characterise the prevalence and correlates of theincorrect belief that VLNC cigarettes are less carcinogenic than currentcigarettes, as this could reduce motivation to quit.METHODS: Participants were a nationally representative sample of 650 adultsmokers in the USA. In 2015-2016, before the VLNC proposal became public, thesesmokers took part in an online survey. We used multivariate weighted analyses tocalculate ORs and percentages and a χ2 test to examine the association betweenvariables.RESULTS: Overall, 47.1% of smokers believed that smoking VLNC cigarettes for 30years would be less likely to cause cancer than smoking current cigarettes. Thismisperception was more common among smokers who were aged above 55 (56.6%) andblack (57.4%). Additionally, 23.9% of smokers reported they would be less likelyto quit if the USA adopted a VLNC standard. Thinking that VLNC cigarettes wouldbe less carcinogenic was associated with smokers reporting they would be lesslikely to quit (P<0.01).CONCLUSIONS: Many smokers had the misperception that smoking VLNC cigarettes isless likely to cause cancer, and some stated that they would be less likely toquit. A VLNC standard may be more effective if accompanied by a communicationcampaign that emphasises the continued dangers of smoking VLNC cigarettes due tothe many toxic chemicals in smoke.
© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text ofthe article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.
