Chem Rev. 2018 Oct 8. doi: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00211. [Epub ahead of print]
Transition Metal Complexes and Photodynamic Therapy from a Tumor-CenteredApproach: Challenges, Opportunities, and Highlights from the Development ofTLD1433.
Monro S(1), Colón KL(2), Yin H(1), Roque J 3rd(2), Konda P, Gujar S(3), ThummelRP(4), Lilge L(5), Cameron CG(2), McFarland SA(1)(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Chemistry , Acadia University , Wolfville , Nova Scotia , CanadaB4P 2R6.(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry , The University of North Carolina atGreensboro , Greensboro , North Carolina 27402 , United States.(3)Centre for Innovative and Collaborative Health Services Research , IWK HealthCentre , Halifax , Nova Scotia Canada B3K 6R8.(4)Department of Chemistry , University of Houston , Houston , Texas 77204-5003 ,United States.(5)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network , 101 CollegeStreet , Toronto , Ontario , Canada M6R 1Z7.
Transition metal complexes are of increasing interest as photosensitizers inphotodynamic therapy (PDT) and, more recently, for photochemotherapy (PCT). Inrecent years, Ru(II) polypyridyl complexes have emerged as promising systems forboth PDT and PCT. Their rich photochemical and photophysical properties derivefrom a variety of excited-state electronic configurations accessible with visibleand near-infrared light, and these properties can be exploited for both energy-and electron-transfer processes that can yield highly potent oxygen-dependentand/or oxygen-independent photobiological activity. Selected examples highlightthe use of rational design in coordination chemistry to control the lowest-energytriplet excited-state configurations for eliciting a particular type ofphotoreactivity for PDT and/or PCT effects. These principles are also discussedin the context of the development of TLD1433, the first Ru(II)-basedphotosensitizer for PDT to enter a human clinical trial. The design of TLD1433arose from a tumor-centered approach, as part of a complete PDT package thatincludes the light component and the protocol for treating non-muscle invasivebladder cancer. Briefly, this review summarizes the challenges to bringing PDTinto mainstream cancer therapy. It considers the chemical and photophysicalsolutions that transition metal complexes offer, and it puts into context themultidisciplinary effort needed to bring a new drug to clinical trial.
