Sex Med Rev. 2018 Jul;6(3):396-409. doi: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2017.12.007. Epub 2018Feb 1.
Urological Survivorship Issues Among Adolescent Boys and Young Men Who Are CancerSurvivors.
Sukhu T(1), Ross S(2), Coward RM(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA. Electronic address: troy.sukhu@unchealth.unc.edu.(2)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Urology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA; University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Fertility, Raleigh,NC, USA.
BACKGROUND: Urological survivorship issues encompass an area that may potentiallybe overlooked after treatment of childhood cancer in adolescent boys and youngmen. Side effects of cancer therapy may include subsequent development oferectile dysfunction (ED), hypogonadism, and infertility in adulthood.AIM: The purpose of this review is to focus on the etiology and prevalence of therange of sexual and gonadal dysfunction in adolescent boys and young men who arecancer survivors, while discussing current recommendations for evaluation andtreatment.METHODS: We performed a literature review of articles evaluating hypogonadism,sexual dysfunction, ED, and infertility in young men cancer survivors.OUTCOMES: There is compelling evidence that significant survivorship issues arefaced by boys entering adulthood after completing cancer therapy.RESULTS: Overall, young men cancer survivors are much more likely to reportsymptoms of sexual dysfunction than the general population of men. These patientscan develop ED due to physiologic and psychological changes that take place withdiagnosis of a malignancy and subsequent treatment. Primary hypogonadism canarise due to pelvic radiation or chemotherapy, and central hypogonadism may arisefrom pituitary insufficiency after brain radiation or surgery. Infertilitydevelops from direct damage to the Sertoli cells and germinal epithelium fromradiotherapy or chemotherapy. Cancer survivors who are men should therefore bescreened for these important urological survivorship issues, although exactsurveillance strategies remain unclear.CONCLUSIONS: Urological survivorship issues including ED, hypogonadism, andinfertility are common among cancer survivors and result in significantmorbidity. Due to the medical complexity of cancer survivorship, the populationof adolescent and young adult survivors would benefit from a network ofmultidisciplinary survivorship experts to aid the transition into adulthood.Improved research efforts may help to clarify risk factors and to developenhanced strategies for evaluation and treatment. Sukhu T, Ross S, Coward RM.Urological Survivorship Issues Among Adolescent Boys and Young Men Who Are CancerSurvivors. Sex Med Rev 2018;6:396-409.
Published by Elsevier Inc.
