Cancer. 2018 Oct 6. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31775. [Epub ahead of print]
Changes in cardiovascular disease risk and risk factors among women with andwithout breast cancer.
Anderson C(1), Nichols HB(1), Deal AM(2), Park YM(3), Sandler DP(3).
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(2)Biostatistics and Clinical Data Management Core, University of North CarolinaLineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.
BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk is an important health concernamong survivors of breast cancer. However, few studies to date have examinedwhether trajectories of CVD risk and major risk factors are worse among womenwith a breast cancer diagnosis compared with those without.METHODS: Changes in weight, body mass index, waist circumference, systolic bloodpressure, and 10-year CVD risk were compared between women with (813 women) andwithout (1049 women) an incident breast cancer diagnosis while they were enrolledin the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences Sister Study cohort.Blood pressure and adiposity measures were collected by trained examiners at anenrollment visit (≥1 year before breast cancer diagnosis) and a second home visit4 to 11 years later (≥1 year after breast cancer diagnosis). Thenon-laboratory-based Framingham risk score, a measure of 10-year general CVDrisk, was calculated at both the enrollment and second visits. All analyses werestratified by menopausal status at the time of enrollment.RESULTS: Women who were premenopausal at the time of enrollment experiencedmoderate increases in weight, waist circumference, systolic blood pressure, andCVD risk over the study period. Those who were postmenopausal at the time ofenrollment demonstrated little change in weight, but were found to have increasesin waist circumference, systolic blood pressure, and CVD risk. In both groups,changes over time did not differ significantly according to breast cancer status.Neither chemotherapy nor endocrine therapy were found to be associated withgreater increases in CVD risk or risk factors.CONCLUSIONS: In the current study cohort, changes over time in CVD risk,adiposity measures, and blood pressure were similar between women who developedan incident breast cancer and those who did not.
© 2018 American Cancer Society.
