Support Care Cancer. 2018 Aug;26(8):2663-2673. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4110-8.Epub 2018 Feb 22.
Relationship between sleep and exercise as colorectal cancer survivors transitionoff treatment.
Coles T(1), Bennett AV(2)(3), Tan X(3)(4), Battaglini CL(3)(5), Sanoff HK(6),Basch E(2)(3), Jensen RE(7), Reeve BB(8).
Author information:(1)RTI-Health Solutions, 200 Park Offices Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC,27709, USA. tcoles@rti.org.(2)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Department of Health Policy andManagement, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(4)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)Department of Exercise and Sport Science, University of North Carolina atChapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(6)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(7)Department of Oncology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.(8)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University School of Medicine,Durham, NC, USA.
PURPOSE: The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the relationshipbetween exercise and sleep disturbance in a sample of individuals diagnosed withstage I, II, and III colorectal cancer (CRC) as patients transitioned offfirst-line treatment. We also sought to identify heterogeneity in therelationship between sleep disturbance and exercise.METHODS: Data were obtained from the MY-Health study, a community-basedobservational study of adults diagnosed with cancer. Patient-Reported OutcomesMeasurement Information System® (PROMIS) measures (e.g., PROMIS Sleep) wereadministered, and participants self-reported demographics, comorbidities, cancertreatment, and exercise. Regression mixture and multiple regression models wereused to evaluate the relationship between sleep disturbance and exercisecross-sectionally at an average of 10 months after diagnosis, and the change insleep disturbance over a 7-month period, from approximately 10 to 17 monthspost-diagnosis.RESULTS: Patients whose exercise was categorized as likely at or above AmericanCollege of Sports Medicine's guidelines did not report statistically better sleepquality compared to patients who were classified as not active. However,retirement (B = - 2.4), anxiety (B = 0.21), and fatigue (B = 0.24) hadstatistically significant relationships with sleep disturbance (p < 0.05).Increase in exercise was not significantly associated with a decrease in sleepdisturbance. No statistical heterogeneity was revealed in the relationshipbetween sleep and exercise.CONCLUSIONS: Further prospective research using an objective measure of exerciseis warranted to confirm or refute the nature of the relationship between exerciseand sleep disturbance in individuals diagnosed with CRC transitioning offfirst-line treatment.
