Gynecol Oncol Rep. 2018 Oct 4;26:60-65. doi: 10.1016/j.gore.2018.10.001.eCollection 2018 Nov.
A tailored approach to building specialized surgical oncology capacity: Earlyexperiences and outcomes in Malawi.
Chinula L(1)(2)(3)(4), Hicks M(1)(5), Chiudzu G(3)(4), Tang JH(1)(2)(3)(4), GopalS(2)(6), Tomoka T(2), Kachingwe J(3)(4), Pinder L(1)(5), Hicks M(7),Sahasrabuddhe V(8), Parham G(1)(5).
Author information:(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Department of Obstetrics &Gynecology, Chapel Hill, USA.(2)UNC Project-Malawi, Lilongwe, Malawi.(3)Malawi College of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Blantyre,Malawi.(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kamuzu Central Hospital, Lilongwe,Malawi.(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Teaching Hospital - Womenand Newborn Hospital, Lusaka, Zambia.(6)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Lineberger Comprehensive CancerCenter, Chapel Hill, USA.(7)Howard University College of Medicine, Washington, DC, USA.(8)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA.
Objectives: Cervical cancer can often be cured by surgery alone, if diagnosed andtreated early. However, of the cancer patients who live in the world's poorestcountries less that 5% have access to safe, effective and timely cancer surgery.We designed a novel, competency-based curriculum to rapidly build surgicalcapacity for the treatment of cervical cancer. Here we report experiences andearly outcomes of its implementation in Malawi.Methods: Curriculum implementation consisted of preoperative evaluation ofpatients and surgical video review, discussion of surgical instruments and suturematerial, deconstruction of the surgical procedure into critical subcomponentsincluding trainees walking through the steps of the procedure with the mastertrainers, high-volume surgical repetition over a short time interval,intra-operative mentoring, post-operative case review, and mental narration. Thiswas preceded by self-directed learning and followed by clinical mentorshipthrough electronic communication and quarterly on-site visits.Results: Between June 2015-June 2017, 28 patients underwent radical abdominalhysterectomy with bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy. The first 8 surgeries wereperformed over 5 days. After the 7th case the trainee could perform the procedurealone. During and between quarterly mentoring-visits the trainee independentlyperformed the procedure on 20 additional patients. Major surgical complicationswere rare.Conclusions: Life-saving surgical treatment for cervical cancer is now availablefor the first time, as a routine clinical service, in Central/Northern, Malawi.
