Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Sep 28. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4921-9. [Epub aheadof print]
Male breast cancer: a disease distinct from female breast cancer.
Gucalp A(1)(2), Traina TA(3)(4), Eisner JR(5), Parker JS(6)(7), Selitsky SR(7),Park BH(8)(9), Elias AD(10), Baskin-Bey ES(5), Cardoso F(11).
Author information:(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Evelyn H.Lauder Breast Center, 300 East 66th Street, New York, NY, USA. gucalpa@mskcc.org.(2)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, 300 East 66th Street,New York, NY, 10065, USA. gucalpa@mskcc.org.(3)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Evelyn H.Lauder Breast Center, 300 East 66th Street, New York, NY, USA.(4)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, 300 East 66th Street,New York, NY, 10065, USA.(5)Innocrin Pharmaceuticals Inc., Durham, NC, USA.(6)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(7)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(8)Johns Hopkins Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD, USA.(9)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center,Nashville, TN, USA.(10)Department of Medicine, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus,Aurora, CO, USA.(11)Breast Unit, Champalimaud Clinical Center/Champalimaud Foundation, Lisbon,Portugal.
PURPOSE: Male breast cancer (BC) is rare, representing approximately 1% ofcancers that occur in men and approximately 1% of all BCs worldwide. Because maleBC is rare, not much is known about the disease, and treatment recommendationsare typically extrapolated from data available from clinical trials enrollingfemale BC patients.METHODS: We review the epidemiology, risk factors, prognosis, and the variedmolecular and clinicopathologic features that characterize male BC. In addition,we summarize the available data for the use of systemic therapy in the treatmentof male BC and explore the ongoing development of targeted therapeutic agents forthe treatment of this subgroup of BCs.RESULTS: There are important biological differences between male and female BC.Male BC is almost exclusively hormone receptor positive (+), including theandrogen receptor (AR), and is associated with an increased prevalence of BRCA2germline mutations, especially in men with increased risk for developinghigh-risk BC. Additional research is warranted to better characterize male BC. Toaccomplish this, a multi-national consortium approach, such as the InternationalMale Breast Cancer Program, is needed in response to the scarcity of patients.This approach allows the pooling of information from a large number of men withBC and the creation of registries for future therapeutic-focused clinical trials.CONCLUSIONS: Given the unique biology of BC in men, promising new therapeutictargets are currently under investigation, including the use of poly-ADP-ribosepolymerase inhibitors or AR-targeted agents either as monotherapy or incombination with other agents.
