

53. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2018 Nov 1;75(21):1736-1741. doi: 10.2146/ajhp170367.
Epub 2018 Oct 3.

Development of an operational productivity tool within a cancer treatment center 
pharmacy.

Achey TS(1), Riffle AR(2), Rose RM(3), Earl M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Hospital, Durham, NC thomas.achey@duke.edu.
(2)Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH.
(3)University of North Carolina Medical Center, Chapel Hill, NC.

PURPOSE: The development and implementation of an operational productivity tool
in an academic cancer treatment center are described.
SUMMARY: Based on the increasing complexity of care delivery within the oncology 
setting, solutions were explored within Cleveland Clinic pharmacy's productivity 
model. Data were electronically captured based on orders processed through the
outpatient oncology setting, including hazardous and nonhazardous medications.
Based on current workflow, inpatient and outpatient orders were reviewed in
productivity metrics. The metric defining the variability of the workload itself 
was weighted dispense type as it was the best representation of a mixed-skill
workflow. After conducting workflow process mapping, discrete measurable steps
were assessed and evaluated daily. Operational components of interest included
pharmacist verification activities and technician compounding activities.
Historical production data were sampled for assigning relative value units (RVUs)
respective to time to normalize workload into a common unit (i.e., 1 hour) and to
relate work demand in a highly variable setting. RVUs were assigned and
delineated by cognitive and distributive activities for pharmacists and
technicians, respectively. The Cleveland Clinic department of pharmacy developed 
a productivity tool to retrospectively measure workload involving time to review,
verify, reconstitute, admix, and deliver chemotherapeutic agents. The weighting
of each medication allowed for precise and meaningful evaluation of productivity.
With RVUs assigned to 2 years of operational metrics, there now exists an
opportunity to monitor performance trends within the cancer treatment center
pharmacy. The data are readily retrievable within the electronic health record.
CONCLUSION: The productivity data provided precise information to assess trends
in operations within the pharmacy of an outpatient cancer treatment center.

Copyright © 2018 by the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp170367 
PMID: 30282665 
