J Glob Oncol. 2018 Sep;(4):1-9. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00163.
The African Esophageal Cancer Consortium: A Call to Action.
Van Loon K(1), Mwachiro MM(1), Abnet CC(1), Akoko L(1), Assefa M(1), BurgertSL(1), Chasimpha S(1), Dzamalala C(1), Fleischer DE(1), Gopal S(1), Iyer PG(1),Kaimila B(1), Kayamba V(1), Kelly P(1), Leon ME(1), Mathew CG(1), Menya D(1),Middleton D(1), Mlombe Y(1), Mmbaga BT(1), Mmbaga E(1), Mulima G(1), Murphy G(1),Mushi B(1), Mwanga A(1), Mwasamwaja A(1), Parker MI(1), Pritchett N(1), SchüzJ(1), Topazian MD(1), White RE(1), McCormack V(1), Dawsey SM(1).
Author information:(1)Katherine Van Loon, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco,CA; Michael M. Mwachiro, Stephen L. Burgert, and Russell E. White, TenwekHospital, Bomet; Diana Menya, Moi University, Eldoret, Kenya; Christian C. Abnet,Gwen Murphy, Natalie Pritchett, and Sanford M. Dawsey, National Cancer Institute,Bethesda, MD; Larry Akoko, Elia Mmbaga, Beatrice Mushi, and Ally Mwanga,Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, Dar es Salaam; Blandina T.Mmbaga and Amos Mwasamwaja, Kilimanjaro Clinical Research Institute, Moshi,Tanzania; Mathewos Assefa, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; SteadyChasimpha and Charles Dzamalala, Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital; CharlesDzamalala, Satish Gopal, Bongani Kaimila, and Yohannie Mlombe, University ofMalawi College of Medicine, Blantyre; Gift Mulima, Kamuzu Central Hospital,Lilongwe, Malawi; David E. Fleischer, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, AZ; Satish Gopal,University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Prasad G. Iyer and Mark D.Topazian, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN; Violet Kayamba and Paul Kelly, Universityof Zambia, Lusaka, Zambia; Paul Kelly, Queen Mary University of London;Christopher G. Mathew, King's College London, London, United Kingdom; Maria E.Leon, Daniel Middleton, Joachim Schüz, and Valerie McCormack, InternationalAgency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France; Christopher G. Mathew, University ofthe Witwatersrand, Johannesburg; and M. Iqbal Parker, University of Cape Town,Cape Town, South Africa.
Esophageal cancer is the eighth most common cancer worldwide and the sixth mostcommon cause of cancer-related death; however, worldwide incidence and mortalityrates do not reflect the geographic variations in the occurrence of this disease.In recent years, increased attention has been focused on the high incidence ofesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) throughout the eastern corridor ofAfrica, extending from Ethiopia to South Africa. Nascent investigations areunderway at a number of sites throughout the region in an effort to improve ourunderstanding of the etiology behind the high incidence of ESCC in this region.In 2017, these sites established the African Esophageal Cancer Consortium. Here,we summarize the priorities of this newly established consortium: to implementcoordinated multisite investigations into etiology and identify targets forprimary prevention; to address the impact of the clinical burden of ESCC viacapacity building and shared resources in treatment and palliative care; and toheighten awareness of ESCC among physicians, at-risk populations, policy makers,and funding agencies.
