

62. Sci Signal. 2018 Sep 25;11(549). pii: eaat7951. doi: 10.1126/scisignal.aat7951.

Covalent inhibitors of EGFR family protein kinases induce degradation of human
Tribbles 2 (TRIB2) pseudokinase in cancer cells.

Foulkes DM(1), Byrne DP(1), Yeung W(2), Shrestha S(2), Bailey FP(1), Ferries
S(1)(3), Eyers CE(1)(3), Keeshan K(4), Wells C(5), Drewry DH(5), Zuercher
WJ(5)(6), Kannan N(2), Eyers PA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Integrative Biology, University of
Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK.
(2)Institute of Bioinformatics and Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.
(3)Centre for Proteome Research, Institute of Integrative Biology, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK.
(4)Paul O'Gorman Leukaemia Research Centre, Institute of Cancer Sciences,
University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK.
(5)Structural Genomics Consortium, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(6)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(7)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Integrative Biology, University of
Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK. patrick.eyers@liverpool.ac.uk.

A major challenge associated with biochemical and cellular analysis of
pseudokinases is a lack of target-validated small-molecule compounds with which
to probe function. Tribbles 2 (TRIB2) is a cancer-associated pseudokinase with a 
diverse interactome, including the canonical AKT signaling module. There is
substantial evidence that human TRIB2 promotes survival and drug resistance in
solid tumors and blood cancers and therefore is of interest as a therapeutic
target. The unusual TRIB2 pseudokinase domain contains a unique cysteine-rich
C-helix and interacts with a conserved peptide motif in its own carboxyl-terminal
tail, which also supports its interaction with E3 ubiquitin ligases. We found
that TRIB2 is a target of previously described small-molecule protein kinase
inhibitors, which were originally designed to inhibit the canonical kinase
domains of epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase family members. Using
a thermal shift assay, we discovered TRIB2-binding compounds within the Published
Kinase Inhibitor Set (PKIS) and used a drug repurposing approach to classify
compounds that either stabilized or destabilized TRIB2 in vitro. TRIB2
destabilizing agents, including the covalent drug afatinib, led to rapid TRIB2
degradation in human AML cancer cells, eliciting tractable effects on signaling
and survival. Our data reveal new drug leads for the development of
TRIB2-degrading compounds, which will also be invaluable for unraveling the
cellular mechanisms of TRIB2-based signaling. Our study highlights that small
molecule-induced protein down-regulation through drug "off-targets" might be
relevant for other inhibitors that serendipitously target pseudokinases.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American
Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government 
Works.

DOI: 10.1126/scisignal.aat7951 
PMID: 30254057 
