

61. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2018 Sep 25. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izy293. [Epub ahead of print]

Preventive Health Care Among Postpartum Women With Inflammatory Bowel Disease:
Results From the PIANO Registry.

Mao EJ(1), Sheibani S(2), Martin C(3), Bloomfeld RS(4), Isaacs K(3), Saha S(5),
Mahadevan U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(4)Department of Medicine, Section of Gastroenterology, Wake Forest University
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin.

Background: Health care maintenance (HCM) is reduced among inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD) patients. This study aims to characterize rates of HCM in a closely
monitored subpopulation-postpartum women with IBD-and identify predictors of
noncompliance.
Methods: A national prospective pregnancy registry was utilized to collect
completion rates of HCM recommendations (cervical cancer screening; osteoporosis 
screening; pneumococcal, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and influenza vaccines).
Completion of a recommendation at least once during follow-up was sufficient,
except for influenza vaccine, which was assessed yearly. Patients were classified
by drug exposures: immunomodulator (Group A), biologic (Group B), combination
therapy (Group AB), and unexposed. Confounders assessed were steroid exposure,
IBD flare, IBD care site, primary care provider (PCP) access, marital status,
income, education level, and race.
Results: There were 628 postpartum IBD women with at least 1 year of follow-up.
HCM rates were as follows: cervical cancer screening (84%), osteoporosis
screening (54%), pneumococcal (50%), hepatitis A (61%), hepatitis B (81%), and
influenza (72%) vaccines. The unexposed group demonstrated lower pneumococcal
vaccination rates than groups A, B, and AB. Group B demonstrated lower cervical
cancer screening rates than the unexposed. PCP access and low education predicted
hepatitis vaccine noncompliance. Unmarried status and low income predicted
cervical cancer screening noncompliance. Low income predicted influenza vaccine
noncompliance.
Conclusions: Postpartum women have multiple providers, yet they complete HCM at
suboptimal rates. Risk factors include biologic exposure, unmarried status, low
income, low education, and access to a PCP. Awareness among providers and
patients is important and needs to be enhanced.

DOI: 10.1093/ibd/izy293 
PMID: 30256951 
