J Altern Complement Med. 2018 Sep/Oct;24(9-10):981-987. doi:10.1089/acm.2018.0183.
Use of Dietary Supplements at a Comprehensive Cancer Center.
Luo Q(1), Asher GN(2)(3).
Author information:(1)1 Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill , Chapel Hill, NC.(2)2 Department of Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill , Chapel Hill, NC.(3)3 Integrative Medicine Services, UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center ,Chapel Hill, NC.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to define dietary supplement (DS)use by cancer patients and to investigate factors associated with DS use duringcancer treatment.METHODS: A cross-sectional survey of adults diagnosed with breast, colorectal,lung, or prostate cancer in 2010-2012 at the University of North CarolinaComprehensive Cancer Center was conducted. Questionnaires were sent to 1794patients. Phone calls were made to nonrespondents. The authors described type ofDS use before, during, and after initial cancer treatment, source of advice on DSuse, and used logistic regression to investigate the association of DS use duringor after cancer treatment with clinical/sociodemographic characteristics andsource of advice.RESULTS: Six hundred and three (34%) patients completed the questionnaires.Nonvitamin nonmineral DS use during initial cancer treatments was common: anycancer treatment (49%), chemotherapy (52%), and radiation therapy (51%). Amongpatients seeking advice on DS use, 75% reported professional sources, 44%reported media sources, and 47% reported lay sources. DS use during cancertreatment was strongly predicted by prior DS use, followed by prior complementarytherapies' use, receiving DS advice from a cancer care provider, being female,and higher education level.CONCLUSION: DS use is common and persists during cancer treatment. Among DS usersduring treatment, 18% used an herbal supplement, which are likely to carrygreater risk of interaction with chemotherapy agents compared with vitamin,mineral, and other supplements. Although many respondents sought DS advice fromprofessional sources, the use of nonprofessional sources remains high.
