J Glob Oncol. 2018 Sep;(4):1-7. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00003. Epub 2017 Jul 17.
Cost of Providing Quality Cancer Care at the Butaro Cancer Center of Excellencein Rwanda.
Neal C(1), Rusangwa C(1), Borg R(1), Tapela N(1), Mugunga JC(1), Pritchett N(1),Shyirambere C(1), Ntakirutimana E(1), Park PH(1), Shulman LN(1), Mpunga T(1).
Author information:(1)Claire Neal, University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global PublicHealth, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Christian Rusangwa, RyanBorg, Natalie Pritchett, Cyprien Shyirambere, Elisephan Ntakirutimana, and PaulH. Park, Partners In Health/Inshuti Mu Buzima, Kigali; Tharcisse Mpunga, Ministryof Health, Butaro, Rwanda; Neo Tapela and Paul H. Park, Brigham and Women'sHospital; Jean Claude Mugunga, Partners In Health, Boston, MA; and Lawrence N.Shulman, Abramson Cancer Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.
PURPOSE: The cost of providing cancer care in low-income countries remainslargely unknown, which creates a significant barrier to effective planning andresource allocation. This study examines the cost of providing comprehensivecancer care at the Butaro Cancer Center of Excellence (BCCOE) in Rwanda.METHODS: A retrospective costing analysis was conducted from the providerperspective by using secondary data from the administrative systems of the BCCOE.We identified the start-up funds necessary to begin initial implementation anddetermined the fiscal year 2013-2014 operating cost of the cancer program,including capital expenditures and fixed and variable costs.RESULTS: A total of $556,105 US dollars was assessed as necessary start-upfunding to implement the program. The annual operating cost of the cancer programwas found to be $957,203 US dollars. Radiotherapy, labor, and chemotherapy werethe most significant cost drivers. Radiotherapy services, which require sendingpatients out of country because there are no radiation units in Rwanda, comprised25% of program costs, labor accounted for 21%, and chemotherapy, supportivemedications, and consumables accounted for 15%. Overhead, training, computedtomography scans, surgeries, blood products, pathology, and social servicesaccounted for less than 10% of the total.CONCLUSION: This study is one of the first to examine operating costs forimplementing a cancer center in a low-income country. Having a strong commitmentto cancer care, adapting clinical protocols to the local setting, shifting tasks,and creating collaborative partnerships make it possible for BCCOE to providequality cancer care at a fraction of the cost seen in middle- and high-incomecountries, which has saved many lives and improved survival. Not all therapies,though, were available because of limited financial resources.
