J Glob Oncol. 2018 Sep;(4):1-8. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00026. Epub 2017 Sep 8.
Leverage of an Existing Cervical Cancer Prevention Service Platform to InitiateBreast Cancer Control Services in Zambia: Experiences and Early Outcomes.
Pinder LF(1), Henry-Tillman R(1), Linyama D(1), Kusweje V(1), Nzayisenga JB(1),Shibemba A(1), Sahasrabuddhe V(1), Lishimpi K(1), Mwanahamuntu M(1), Hicks M(1),Parham GP(1).
Author information:(1)Leeva F. Pinder, David Linyama, Jean-Baptiste Nzayisenga, Aaron Shibemba,Mulindi Mwanahamuntu, and Groesbeck P. Parham, University of Zambia School ofMedicine; Kennedy Lishimpi, Cancer Diseases Hospital, Lusaka; Victor Kusweje,Kabwe General Hospital, Kabwe, Zambia; Leeya F. Pinder, Michael Hicks, andGroesbeck P. Parham, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,NC; Ronda Henry-Tillman, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, LittleRock, AR; and Vikrant Sahasrabuddhe, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD.
PURPOSE: In 2005, the Cervical Cancer Prevention Program in Zambia (CCPPZ) wasimplemented and has since provided cervical cancer screen-and-treat services tomore than 500,000 women. By leveraging the successes and experiences of theCCPPZ, we intended to build capacity for the early detection and surgicaltreatment of breast cancer.METHODS: Our initiative sought to build capacity for breast cancer care throughthe (1) formation of a breast cancer advocacy alliance to raise awareness, (2)creation of resource-appropriate breast cancer care training curricula for mid-and high-level providers, and (3) implementation of early detection and treatmentcapacity within two major health care facilities.RESULTS: Six months after the completion of the initiative, the followingoutcomes were documented: Breast health education and clinical breast examination(CBE) services were successfully integrated into the service platforms of fourCCPPZ clinics. Two new breast diagnostic centers were opened, which providedaccess to breast ultrasound, ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy, and needleaspiration. Breast health education and CBE were provided to 1,955 clients, 167of whom were evaluated at the two diagnostic centers; 55 of those evaluatedunderwent core-needle biopsy, of which 17 were diagnosed with invasive cancer.Newly trained surgeons performed six sentinel lymph node mappings, eight sentinellymph node dissections, and 10 breast conservation surgeries (lumpectomies).CONCLUSION: This initiative successfully established clinical services in Zambiathat are critical for the early detection and surgical management of breastcancer.
