J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2018 Sep 27. doi: 10.1089/jwh.2017.6884. [Epub aheadof print]
Rural-Urban Residence and Stage at Breast Cancer Diagnosis Among PostmenopausalWomen: The Women's Health Initiative.
Sealy-Jefferson S(1), Roseland ME(2), Cote ML(3), Lehman A(4), Whitsel EA(5),Mustafaa FN(6), Booza J(7), Simon MS(3).
Author information:(1)1 Division of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, The Ohio StateUniversity , Columbus, Ohio.(2)2 Beaumont Hospital Oakwood Campus , Dearborn, Michigan.(3)3 Department Oncology and Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University ,Detroit, Michigan.(4)4 Center for Biostatistics, The Ohio State University , Columbus, Ohio.(5)5 Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina School of GlobalPublic Health , Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(6)6 Department of Psychology, University of California at Berkeley , Berkeley,California.(7)7 Department of Family Medicine and Public Health Sciences, Wayne StateUniversity , Detroit, Michigan.
BACKGROUND: Although social exposures have complex and dynamic relationships andinteractions, the existing literature on the impact of rural-urban residence onstage at breast cancer diagnosis does not examine heterogeneity of effect. Weexamined the joint effect of social support, social relationship strain, andrural-urban residence on stage at breast cancer diagnosis.METHODS: Using data from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) (n = 161,808), wedescribe the distribution of social, behavioral, and clinical factors byrural-urban residence among postmenopausal women with incident breast cancer(n = 7,120). We used rural-urban commuting area (RUCA) codes to categorizebaseline residential addresses as urban, large rural city/town, or small ruraltown, and the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results staging system tocategorize breast cancer stage at diagnosis (dichotomized as early or late). Wethen used univariable and multivariable logistic regression to estimate oddsratios (ORs) and associated 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) for therelationship between rural-urban residence and stage at breast cancer diagnosis.We included separate interaction terms between rural-urban residence and socialstrain and social support to test for statistical interaction.RESULTS: Of the social, behavioral, and clinical factors we examined, onlyyounger age at WHI enrollment screening was significantly associated with latestage at breast cancer diagnosis (p = 0.003). Contrary to our hypothesis,rural-urban residence was not significantly associated with stage at breastcancer diagnosis among postmenopausal women ([adjusted OR, 95% CI] for urbancompared with small town: 1.08 [0.76-1.53]; large town compared with small town:1.16 [0.74-1.84]; and urban compared with large town: 0.93 [0.68-1.26]).Theassociations did not vary by social support or social strain (p for interactionbetween RUCA and social strain and social support, respectively: 0.99 and 0.17).CONCLUSIONS: Future studies should examine other potential effect modifiers toidentify novel factors predictive or protective for late stage at breast cancerdiagnosis associated with rural-urban residence.
