

79. J Racial Ethn Health Disparities. 2018 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s40615-018-0522-x.
[Epub ahead of print]

What Happened to Disparities in CRC Screening Among FFS Medicare Enrollees
Following Medicare Modernization?

Mobley LR(1), Kuo TM(2), Zhou M(3), Rutherford Y(4), Meador S(4), Koschinsky
J(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
lmobley@gsu.edu.
(2)Lineberger Cancer Center, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Georgia Health Policy Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)School of Public Health, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(5)Center for Spatial Data Science, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, implemented in 2006, increased managed
care options for seniors. It introduced insurance plans for prescription drug
coverage for all Medicare beneficiaries, whether they were enrolled in FFS or
managed care (Medicare Advantage) plans. The availability of drug coverage
beginning in 2006 served to free up budgets for FFS Medicare enrollees that could
be used to make copayments for colorectal cancer (CRC) screening using endoscopy 
(colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy). In 2007, Medicare eliminated the copayments
required by seniors for CRC screening by endoscopy. Later in 2008, CRC screening 
by colonoscopy became part of the gold standard for CRC screening. This
legitimized its use and offered even further encouragement to seniors, who may
have been reluctant to undergo the procedure because of the non-pecuniary risks
associated with it. In addition, 37 CRC screening interventions occurred during
this timeframe to enhance compliance with screening standards. Using multilevel
analysis of individuals' endoscopy utilization, derived from 100% FFS Medicare
claims, along with county-level market and contextual factors, we compare the
periods before and after the MMA (2001-2005 to 2006-2009) to determine whether
disparities in the utilization of endoscopic CRC screening occurred or changed
over the decade. We examined Blacks, Asians, and Hispanics relative to Whites,
and Females relative to Males (with race or ethnicity combined). We examined each
state separately for evidence of disparities within states, to avoid confounding 
by geographic disparities. We expected that the net effect of the policy changes 
and the targeted interventions over the decade would be to increase CRC screening
by endoscopy, reducing disparities. We saw improvements over time (reduced
disparities relative to Whites) for Blacks and Hispanics residing in several
states, and improvements over time for Females relative to Males in many states. 
For the vast majority of states, however, disparities persisted with Whites and
Males exhibiting greater rates of utilization than other groups. States that
undertook the interventions were more likely to have had improvements in
disparities or positive disparities for women and minorities. While some gains
were made over this time period, the gains were unevenly distributed across the
USA and more work needs to be done to reduce remaining disparities.

DOI: 10.1007/s40615-018-0522-x 
PMID: 30232793 
