

74. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2018 Nov 1;77(11):1039-1054. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nly085.

A Revised Diagnostic Classification of Canine Glioma: Towards Validation of the
Canine Glioma Patient as a Naturally Occurring Preclinical Model for Human
Glioma.

Koehler JW(1), Miller AD(2), Miller CR(3)(4)(5), Porter B(6), Aldape K(7), Beck
J(8), Brat D(9), Cornax I(10), Corps K(11), Frank C(12), Giannini C(13),
Horbinski C(14)(15), Huse JT(16), O'Sullivan MG(17), Rissi DR(18), Mark Simpson
R(19), Woolard K(20), Shih JH(21), Mazcko C(22), Gilbert MR(23), LeBlanc AK(24).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn University,
Auburn, Alabama.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Section of Anatomic Pathology, College of
Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.
(4)Department of Neurology.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center and
Neuroscience Center, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina.
(6)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine and
Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas.
(7)Laboratory of Pathology, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(8)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, Center for Cancer Research, National
Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(9)Department of Pathology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University,
Chicago, Illinois.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, University of California-San Diego, San Diego
California.
(11)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Viral Immunology and Intravital Imaging Section, Bethesda, Maryland.
(12)Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Pathology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Colorado State University, Ft. Collins,
Colorado.
(13)Division of Anatomic Pathology, Department of Laboratory Medicine and
Pathology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota.
(14)Department of Pathology.
(15)Department of Neurosurgery, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, Illinois.
(16)Departments of Pathology and Translational Molecular Pathology, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(17)Masonic Cancer Center Comparative Pathology Shared Resource and Department of
Veterinary Population Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota.
(18)Department of Pathology and Athens Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, College 
of Veterinary Medicine, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia.
(19)Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of
Health, Molecular Pathology Unit, Laboratory of Cancer Biology and Genetics,
Bethesda, Maryland.
(20)Department of Pathology, Microbiology, and Immunology, School of Veterinary
Medicine, University of California-Davis, Davis, California.
(21)Biometrics Research Program, Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis,
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(22)Comparative Oncology Program, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(23)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the Center for
Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
NeuroOncology Branch, Bethesda, Maryland.
(24)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Comparative
Oncology Program, Center for Cancer Research, Bethesda, Maryland.

The National Cancer Institute-led multidisciplinary Comparative Brain Tumor
Consortium (CBTC) convened a glioma pathology board, comprising both veterinarian
and physician neuropathologists, and conducted a comprehensive review of 193
cases of canine glioma. The immediate goal was to improve existing glioma
classification methods through creation of a histologic atlas of features, thus
yielding greater harmonization of phenotypic characterization. The long-term goal
was to support future incorporation of clinical outcomes and genomic data into
proposed simplified diagnostic schema, so as to further bridge the worlds of
veterinary and physician neuropathology and strengthen validity of the dog as a
naturally occurring, translationally relevant animal model of human glioma. All
cases were morphologically reclassified according to a new schema devised by the 
entire board, yielding a majority opinion diagnosis of astrocytoma (43, 22.3%),
19 of which were low-grade and 24 high-grade, and oligodendroglioma (134, 69.4%),
35 of which were low-grade and 99 were high-grade. Sixteen cases (8.3%) could not
be classified as oligodendroglioma or astrocytoma based on morphology alone and
were designated as undefined gliomas. The simplified classification scheme
proposed herein provides a tractable means for future addition of molecular data,
and also serves to highlight histologic similarities and differences between
human and canine glioma.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nly085 
PMCID: PMC6181180
PMID: 30239918 
