J Racial Ethn Health Disparities. 2018 Sep 19. doi: 10.1007/s40615-018-0522-x.[Epub ahead of print]
What Happened to Disparities in CRC Screening Among FFS Medicare EnrolleesFollowing Medicare Modernization?
Mobley LR(1), Kuo TM(2), Zhou M(3), Rutherford Y(4), Meador S(4), KoschinskyJ(5).
Author information:(1)School of Public Health, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.lmobley@gsu.edu.(2)Lineberger Cancer Center, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, ChapelHill, NC, USA.(3)Georgia Health Policy Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.(4)School of Public Health, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.(5)Center for Spatial Data Science, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, implemented in 2006, increased managedcare options for seniors. It introduced insurance plans for prescription drugcoverage for all Medicare beneficiaries, whether they were enrolled in FFS ormanaged care (Medicare Advantage) plans. The availability of drug coveragebeginning in 2006 served to free up budgets for FFS Medicare enrollees that couldbe used to make copayments for colorectal cancer (CRC) screening using endoscopy(colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy). In 2007, Medicare eliminated the copaymentsrequired by seniors for CRC screening by endoscopy. Later in 2008, CRC screeningby colonoscopy became part of the gold standard for CRC screening. Thislegitimized its use and offered even further encouragement to seniors, who mayhave been reluctant to undergo the procedure because of the non-pecuniary risksassociated with it. In addition, 37 CRC screening interventions occurred duringthis timeframe to enhance compliance with screening standards. Using multilevelanalysis of individuals' endoscopy utilization, derived from 100% FFS Medicareclaims, along with county-level market and contextual factors, we compare theperiods before and after the MMA (2001-2005 to 2006-2009) to determine whetherdisparities in the utilization of endoscopic CRC screening occurred or changedover the decade. We examined Blacks, Asians, and Hispanics relative to Whites,and Females relative to Males (with race or ethnicity combined). We examined eachstate separately for evidence of disparities within states, to avoid confoundingby geographic disparities. We expected that the net effect of the policy changesand the targeted interventions over the decade would be to increase CRC screeningby endoscopy, reducing disparities. We saw improvements over time (reduceddisparities relative to Whites) for Blacks and Hispanics residing in severalstates, and improvements over time for Females relative to Males in many states.For the vast majority of states, however, disparities persisted with Whites andMales exhibiting greater rates of utilization than other groups. States thatundertook the interventions were more likely to have had improvements indisparities or positive disparities for women and minorities. While some gainswere made over this time period, the gains were unevenly distributed across theUSA and more work needs to be done to reduce remaining disparities.
