Lancet Oncol. 2018 Oct;19(10):1404-1416. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(18)30456-X. Epub2018 Sep 10.
Effect of apalutamide on health-related quality of life in patients withnon-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer: an analysis of the SPARTANrandomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial.
Saad F(1), Cella D(2), Basch E(3), Hadaschik BA(4), Mainwaring PN(5), OudardS(6), Graff JN(7), McQuarrie K(8), Li S(9), Hudgens S(10), Lawson J(11),Lopez-Gitlitz A(12), Yu MK(12), Smith MR(13), Small EJ(14).
Author information:(1)Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Université de Montréal,Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: fred.saad@umontreal.ca.(2)Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.(3)Cancer Outcomes Research Program, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of North Carolina, NC, USA.(4)University of Duisburg-Essen, German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), partner siteUniversity Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany; Ruprecht-Karls University Heidelberg,Heidelberg, Germany.(5)Center for Personalized Nanomedicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD,Australia.(6)Georges Pompidou Hospital, Paris, France.(7)VA Portland Health Care System, Portland and Knight Cancer Institute, OregonHealth & Science University, Portland, OR, USA.(8)Janssen Research & Development, Horsham, PA, USA.(9)Janssen Research & Development, Spring House, PA, USA.(10)Clinical Outcomes Solutions, Tucson, AZ, USA.(11)Janssen Research & Development, Raritan, NJ, USA.(12)Janssen Research & Development, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(13)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and Harvard Medical School,Boston, MA, USA.(14)Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California SanFrancisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
BACKGROUND: In the SPARTAN trial, addition of apalutamide to androgen deprivationtherapy, as compared with placebo plus androgen deprivation therapy,significantly improved metastasis-free survival in men with non-metastaticcastration-resistant prostate cancer who were at high risk for development ofmetastases. We aimed to investigate the effects of apalutamide versus placeboadded to androgen deprivation therapy on health-related quality of life (HRQOL).METHODS: SPARTAN is a multicentre, international, randomised, phase 3 trial.Participants were aged 18 years or older, with non-metastaticcastration-resistant prostate cancer, a prostate-specific antigen doubling timeof 10 months or less, and a prostate-specific antigen concentration of 2 ng/mL ormore in serum. Patients were randomly assigned (2:1) to 240 mg oral apalutamideper day plus androgen deprivation therapy, or matched oral placebo plus androgendeprivation therapy, using an interactive voice randomisation system. Permutedblock randomisation was used according to the three baseline stratificationfactors: prostate-specific antigen doubling time (>6 months vs ≤6 months), use ofbone-sparing drugs (yes vs no), and presence of local-regional nodal disease (N0vs N1). Each treatment cycle was 28 days. The primary endpoint wasmetastasis-free survival. The trial was unblinded in July, 2017. In thisprespecified exploratory analysis we assessed HRQOL using the FunctionalAssessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) and EQ-5D-3L questionnaires, whichwe collected at baseline, day 1 of cycle 1 (before dose), day 1 of treatmentcycles 1-6, day 1 of every two cycles from cycles 7 to 13, and day 1 of everyfour cycles thereafter. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, numberNCT01946204.FINDINGS: Between Oct 14, 2013, and Dec 15, 2016, we randomly assigned 1207patients to receive apalutamide (n=806) or placebo (n=401). The clinical cutoffdate, as for the primary analysis, was May 19, 2017. Median follow-up for overallsurvival was 20·3 months (IQR 14·8-26·6). FACT-P total and subscale scores wereassociated with a preservation of HRQOL from baseline to cycle 29 in theapalutamide group; there were similar results for EQ-5D-3L. At baseline, the meanfor FACT-P total score in both the apalutamide and placebo groups were consistentwith the FACT-P general population norm for US adult men. Group meanpatient-reported outcome scores over time show that HRQOL was maintained frombaseline after initiation of apalutamide treatment and was similar over timeamong patients receiving apalutamide versus placebo. Least-squares mean changefrom baseline shows that HRQOL deterioration was more apparent in the placebogroup.INTERPRETATION: In asymptomatic men with high-risk non-metastaticcastration-resistant prostate cancer, HRQOL was maintained after initiation ofapalutamide treatment. Considered with findings from SPARTAN, patients whoreceived apalutamide had longer metastasis-free survival and longer time tosymptomatic progression than did those who received placebo, while preservingHRQOL.FUNDING: Janssen Research & Development.
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
