Anal Chem. 2018 Oct 16;90(20):11981-11988. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b02486.Epub 2018 Oct 4.
Screening Estrogen Receptor Modulators in a Paper-Based Breast Cancer Model.
Whitman NA(1), Lin ZW(1), DiProspero TJ(1), McIntosh JC(1), Lockett MR(1)(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Chemistry, Kenan and Caudill Laboratories , University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill , 125 South Road , Chapel Hill , North Carolina27599-3290 , United States.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center , University of North Carolina atChapel Hill , 450 West Drive , Chapel Hill , North Carolina 27599-7295 , UnitedStates.
The health risks associated with acute and prolonged exposure to estrogenreceptor (ER) modulators has led to a concerted effort to identify and prioritizepotential disruptors present in the environment. ER agonists and antagonists areidentified with end-point assays, quantifying changes in cellular proliferationor gene transactivation in monolayers of estrogen receptor alpha expressing (ER+)cells upon exposure. While these monolayer cultures can be prepared, dosed, andanalyzed in a highly parallelized manner, they are unable to predict thepotencies of ER modulators in vivo accurately. Physiologically relevant modelsystems that better predict tissue- or organ-level responses are needed. Toaddress this need, we describe here a screening platform capable ofquantitatively assessing ER modulators in 96 chemically isolated 3D cultures.These cultures are supported in wax-patterned paper scaffolds whose design hasimproved performance and throughput over previously described paper-based setups.To highlight the potential of paper-based cultures for toxicity screens, wemeasured the potency of known ER modulators with a luciferase-based reporterassay. We also quantified the proliferation and invasion of two ER+ cell lines inthe presence of estradiol. Despite the inability of the current setup to betterpredict in vivo potencies of ER modulators than monolayer cultures, the resultsdemonstrate the potential of this platform to support increasingly complex andphysiologically relevant tissue-like structures for environmental chemical riskassessment.
