Mol Pharm. 2018 Oct 1. doi: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00672. [Epub ahead ofprint]
Synthesis and Characterization of Cetuximab-Docetaxel and Panitumumab-DocetaxelAntibody-Drug Conjugates for EGFR-Overexpressing Cancer Therapy.
Glatt DM(1), Beckford Vera DR(2), Prabhu SS(1), Mumper RJ(1), Luft JC(1),Benhabbour SR(1)(3), Parrott MC(2).
Author information:(1)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics, UNC EshelmanSchool of Pharmacy , University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill , 125 Mason FarmRoad , Chapel Hill , North Carolina 27599 , United States.(2)Department of Radiology, Biomedical Research Imaging Center , University ofNorth Carolina at Chapel Hill , Marsico Hall, 125 Mason Farm Road , Chapel Hill ,North Carolina 27599 , United States.(3)UNC-NCSU Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering , University of NorthCarolina at Chapel Hill , Marsico Hall, 125 Mason Farm Road , Chapel Hill , NorthCarolina 27599 , United States.
The safety and efficacy of anticancer antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) depend onthe selection of tumor-targeting monoclonal antibody (mAb), linker, and drug, aswell as their specific chemical arrangement and linkage chemistry. In this study,we used a heterobifunctional cross-linker to conjugate docetaxel (DX) tocetuximab (CET) or panitumumab (PAN). The resulting ADCs were investigated fortheir in vitro EGFR-specific cytotoxicity and in vivo anticancer activity.Reaction conditions, such as reducing agent, time, temperature, and alkylationbuffer, were optimized to yield potent and stable ADCs with consistentbatch-to-batch drug-to-antibody ratios (DARs). ADCs were synthesized with DARsfrom 0.4 to 3.0, and all retained their EGFR affinity and specificity aftermodification. ADCs were sensitive to cell surface wildtype EGFR expression,demonstrating more cytotoxicity in EGFR-expressing A431 and MDA-MB-231 cell linescompared to U87MG cells. A431 tumor-bearing mice treated once weekly for fourweeks with 100 mg/kg cetuximab-docetaxel ADC (C-SC-DX, DAR 2.5) showed durableanticancer responses and improved overall survival compared to the same treatmentregimen with 1 mg/kg DX, 100 mg/kg CET, or a combination 1 mg/kg DX and 100 mg/kgCET. New treatment options are emerging for patients with both wild-type andmutated EGFR-overexpressing cancers, and these studies highlight the potentialrole of EGFR-targeted ADC therapies as a promising new treatment option.
