Ultrasound Med Biol. 2018 Sep 15. pii: S0301-5629(18)30336-3. doi:10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.08.003. [Epub ahead of print]
Optimization of Phase-Change Contrast Agents for Targeting MDA-MB-231 BreastCancer Cells.
Hadinger KP(1), Marshalek JP(1), Sheeran PS(2), Dayton PA(3), Matsunaga TO(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Medical Imaging, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, USA.(2)Physical Sciences Department, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario,Canada; Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto,Ontario, Canada.(3)Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina andNorth Carolina State University, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.(4)Department of Medical Imaging, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, USA.Electronic address: Tmatsunaga@radiology.arizona.edu.
Breast cancer remains a leading cause of death for women throughout the world.Recent advances in medical imaging technologies and tumor targeting agentssignify vast potential for progress toward improved management of this globalproblem. Phase-change contrast agents (PCCAs) are dynamic imaging agents withpractical applications in both the research and clinical settings. PCCAs possesscharacteristics that allow for cellular uptake where they can be converted fromliquid-phase PCCAs to gaseous microbubbles via ultrasound energy. Previously, wereported successful internalization of folate-targeted PCCAs in MDA-MB-231 breastcancer cells followed by ultrasound-mediated activation to produce internalizedmicrobubbles. This study examines the binding, internalization and activation offolate-receptor targeted PCCAs in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells as a function ofgaseous core compositions, incubation time and ultrasound exposure period. Invitro results indicate that internalization and ultrasound-mediated activation ofPCCAs were significantly greater using a 50:50 mixture ofdecafluorobutane:dodecafluoropentane compared with other core compositions: 50:50octafluoropropane:decafluorobutane (p < 0.0001), decafluorobutane (p < 0.04) anddodecafluoropentane (p < 0.0001). Furthermore, it was found that PCCAs composedof perfluorocarbons with higher boiling points responded with greater activationefficiency when exposed to 12s of ultrasound exposure as opposed to 4s ofultrasound exposure. When evaluating different incubation times, it was foundthat incubating the PCCAs with breast cancer cells for 60min did not producesignificantly greater internalization and activation compared with incubation for10 min; this was concluded after comparing the number of microbubbles present percell before ultrasound versus post-ultrasound, and finding a ratio ofintracellular microbubbles post-ultrasound/pre-ultrasound, 3.46 versus 3.14,respectively. The data collected in this study helps illustrate furtheroptimization of folate-receptor targeted PCCAs for breast cancer targeting andimaging.
Copyright © 2018 World Federation for Ultrasound in Medicine 8 Biology. Publishedby Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
