Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.
Am J Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 1;8(8):1551-1563. eCollection 2018.
ONC201 demonstrates anti-tumorigenic and anti-metastatic activity in uterineserous carcinoma in vitro.
Fang Z(1)(2), Wang J(3), Clark LH(2)(4), Sun W(2), Yin Y(2), Kong W(3), PierceSR(2), West L(2), Sullivan SA(2), Tran AQ(2), Prabhu VV(5), Zhou C(2)(4),Bae-Jump V(2)(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Obstetrics, Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital, CapitalMedical University Beijing, P. R. China.(2)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel HillChapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Beijing Obstetrics and GynecologyHospital, Capital Medical University Beijing, P. R. China.(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(5)Oncoceutics Philadelphia, PA, USA.
Uterine serous carcinoma (USC) represents an aggressive histologic subtype ofendometrial cancer. It is associated with a poor prognosis, and improvedtherapies for women battling USCs are greatly needed. ONC201 is an orallybioavailable, first-in-class small molecule that induces tumor necrosisfactor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) independent of p53. ONC201 hasdemonstrated anti-tumorigenic activity in pre-clinical models of solid tumorsthrough induction of apoptosis and inactivation of the AKT/MAPK pathways. Recentphase I and II clinical trials have shown that ONC201 is well tolerated and mayhave single agent activity in high grade glioma patients among others. We soughtto determine the effects of ONC201 on cell proliferation in USC and identify themechanisms by which ONC201 inhibits cell growth in this disease. ONC201 inhibitedcell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner in ARK1, ARK2 and SPEC-2 celllines. The anti-proliferative activity of ONC201 in ARK1 and SPEC-2 cells wasassociated with induction apoptosis independent of p53 via both a TRAIL mediatedapoptotic pathway and a mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Treatment with ONC201resulted in significant reduction in adhesion and invasion as well as inhibitionof the AKT and MAPK pathways. In addition, ONC201 markedly potentiated theanti-tumorigenic effects of paclitaxel in USC cells. Our results suggest thatONC201 has significant anti-proliferative and anti-metastatic effects in USCcells through both induction of apoptosis and inhibition of the AKT and MAPKpathways. ONC201 and paclitaxel are a promising therapeutic combination in USCcells. Thus, ONC201 should be evaluated as a single agent and as a therapeuticpartner with paclitaxel in future clinical trials of USC.
