
Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: JV, RN, and SP have
received consulting fees from Amgen Inc. EMS is an employee of Amgen Inc. AM has 
nothing to disclose.


99. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2018 Sep 12. doi: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-18-0123. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Effects of Supplemental Calcium and Vitamin D on Expression of Toll-Like
Receptors and Phospho-IKKα/β in the Normal Rectal Mucosa of Colorectal Adenoma
Patients.

Hodge R(1), Mandle HB(1), Ray S(1), Tandon S(1), Peterson M(1), Henry A(1), Jahan
FA(1), Bostick RM(1)(2), Baron JA(3)(4)(5), Barry EL(3), Yacoub R(1), Rutherford 
RE(6), Seabrook ME(7), Fedirko V(8)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)Winship Cancer Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon,
New Hampshire.
(4)Department of Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, New
Hampshire.
(5)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(6)Division of Digestive Diseases, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine,
Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(7)Consultants in Gastroenterology, West Columbia, South Carolina.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia. vfedirk@emory.edu.

Chronic inflammation in the colorectum, a significant contributor to colorectal
carcinogenesis, can be triggered by the activation of proinflammatory signaling
pathways such as those initiated by Toll-like receptors (TLR) and nuclear factor 
κB (NF-κB). Although experimental evidence supports calcium and vitamin D
potentially modifying these proinflammatory pathways in the colorectum, human
data in these regards are scarce. We investigated supplemental calcium (1,200 mg 
daily) and/or vitamin D3 (1,000 IU daily) effects on inflammatory signaling
pathway-related biomarkers in a subset of 105 participants from a colorectal
adenoma recurrence chemoprevention clinical trial. We assessed expression of TLR4
and TLR5, which recognize the bacterial components lipopolysaccharides and
flagellin, respectively, and phospho-IKKα/β (pIKKα/β), a biomarker of
inflammation, in the normal-appearing rectal crypt epithelium and stroma using
standardized, automated immunohistochemistry and quantitative image analysis.
Following 1 year of treatment, TLR4, TLR5, and pIKKα/β expression in the rectal
mucosa did not statistically significantly change with vitamin D or calcium
supplementation, taken alone or in combination. Several baseline participant
characteristics, including body mass index, history of sessile serrated adenomas,
high red/processed meat intake, and high levels of rectal epithelial cell
proliferation (as measured by MIB-1/Ki-67), were associated with higher baseline 
expression of TLRs or pIKKα/β. Our findings suggest that vitamin D and calcium
may have no substantial effect on the investigated biomarkers. However, several
modifiable lifestyle factors may be associated with TLRs and pIKKα/β expression
in the normal rectal mucosa, supporting their future investigation as potentially
treatable, preneoplastic risk factors for colorectal neoplasms. Cancer Prev Res; 
11(11); 1-10. ©2018 AACR.

©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-18-0123 
PMID: 30209117 
