Cancer Immunol Res. 2018 Sep 12. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-18-0086. [Epub aheadof print]
Stromal Fibroblasts Mediate Anti-PD-1 Resistance via MMP-9 and Dictate TGFβInhibitor Sequencing in Melanoma.
Zhao F(1), Evans K(1), Xiao C(1), DeVito N(1), Theivanthiran B(1), HoltzhausenA(2), Siska PJ(3), Blobe GC(1)(4), Hanks BA(5)(4).
Author information:(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, Duke Cancer Institute,Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(3)Department of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital Regensburg,Regensburg, Germany.(4)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University, Durham, NorthCarolina.(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, Duke Cancer Institute,Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina. hanks004@mc.duke.edu.
Although anti-PD-1 therapy has improved clinical outcomes for select patientswith advanced cancer, many patients exhibit either primary or adaptive resistanceto checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy. The role of the tumor stroma in thedevelopment of these mechanisms of resistance to checkpoint inhibitors remainsunclear. We demonstrated that pharmacologic inhibition of the TGFβ signalingpathway synergistically enhanced the efficacy of anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapy butfailed to augment anti-PD-1/PD-L1 responses in an autochthonous model ofBRAFV600E melanoma. Additional mechanistic studies revealed that TGFβ pathwayinhibition promoted the proliferative expansion of stromal fibroblasts, therebyfacilitating MMP-9-dependent cleavage of PD-L1 surface expression, leading toanti-PD-1 resistance in this model. Further work demonstrated that melanomasescaping anti-PD-1 therapy exhibited a mesenchymal phenotype associated withenhanced TGFβ signaling activity. Delayed TGFβ inhibitor therapy, followinganti-PD-1 escape, better served to control further disease progression and wassuperior to a continuous combination of anti-PD-1 and TGFβ inhibition. This workillustrates that formulating immunotherapy combination regimens to enhance theefficacy of checkpoint blockade requires an in-depth understanding of the impactof these agents on the tumor microenvironment. These data indicated that stromalfibroblast MMP-9 may desensitize tumors to anti-PD-1 and suggests that TGFβinhibition may generate greater immunologic efficacy when administered followingthe development of acquired anti-PD-1 resistance. Cancer Immunol Res; 1-13. ©2018AACR.
©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.
