PLoS Pathog. 2018 Sep 13;14(9):e1007267. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007267.eCollection 2018 Sep.
Chromatin remodeling controls Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirusreactivation from latency.
Hopcraft SE(1), Pattenden SG(2), James LI(2), Frye S(2), Dittmer DP(1), DamaniaB(1).
Author information:(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Microbiology andImmunology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, UnitedStates of America.(2)Center for Integrative Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, Division ofChemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States of America.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is the etiologic agent of threehuman malignancies, the endothelial cell cancer Kaposi's sarcoma, and two B cellcancers, Primary Effusion Lymphoma and multicentric Castleman's disease. KSHV haslatent and lytic phases of the viral life cycle, and while both contribute toviral pathogenesis, lytic proteins contribute to KSHV-mediated oncogenesis.Reactivation from latency is driven by the KSHV lytic gene transactivator RTA,and RTA transcription is controlled by epigenetic modifications. To identify hostchromatin-modifying proteins that are involved in the latent to lytic transition,we screened a panel of inhibitors that target epigenetic regulatory proteins fortheir ability to stimulate KSHV reactivation. We found several novel regulatorsof viral reactivation: an inhibitor of Bmi1, PTC-209, two additional histonedeacetylase inhibitors, Romidepsin and Panobinostat, and the bromodomaininhibitor (+)-JQ1. All of these compounds stimulate lytic gene expression, viralgenome replication, and release of infectious virions. Treatment with Romidepsin,Panobinostat, and PTC-209 induces histone modifications at the RTA promoter, andresults in nucleosome depletion at this locus. Finally, silencing Bmi1 inducesKSHV reactivation, indicating that Bmi1, a member of the Polycomb repressivecomplex 1, is critical for maintaining KSHV latency.
