Breastfeeding Programs and Policies, Breastfeeding Uptake, and Maternal HealthOutcomes in Developed Countries [Internet].
Feltner C(1), Weber RP(1), Stuebe A(1), Grodensky CA(1), Orr C(1), ViswanathanM(1).Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2018 Jul. ReportNo.: 18-EHC014-EF.AHRQ Comparative Effectiveness Reviews.
Author information:(1)RTI International–University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Evidence-basedPractice Center
OBJECTIVES: To summarize the effectiveness of community, workplace, and healthcare system–based programs and policies aimed at supporting and promotingbreastfeeding and determine the association between breastfeeding and maternalhealth.DATA SOURCES: We searched PubMed®/MEDLINE®, the Cochrane Library, and CINAHL®from January 1, 1980, to October 12, 2017, for studies relevant to theeffectiveness of health care system–based, workplace, and community breastfeedingprograms and policies. For evidence on breastfeeding and maternal health, weupdated the 2007 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality report on this topicand searched the same databases from November 1, 2005, to October 12, 2017. Forstudies of breastfeeding programs and policies, trials, systematic reviews, andobservational studies with a control group were eligible; we excluded primarycare–based programs delivered as part of routine care. For studies related tobreastfeeding and maternal health, we included systematic reviews, case-controlstudies, and cohort studies.REVIEW METHODS: Pairs of reviewers independently selected, extracted data from,and rated the risk of bias of relevant studies; they graded the strength ofevidence (SOE) using established criteria. We synthesized all evidencequalitatively.RESULTS: We included 128 studies (137 publications) and 10 systematic reviews. Ofthese, 40 individual studies were relevant to the effectiveness of breastfeedingprograms or policies, and the remainder were relevant to one or more maternalhealth outcomes. Based on evidence from one large randomized controlled trial(RCT) (Promotion of Breastfeeding Intervention Trial [PROBIT], N=17,046)enrolling mothers who intended to breastfeed and nine cohort studies (1,227,182women), we graded the SOE for the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative (BFHI) asmoderate for improving rates of breastfeeding duration. Evidence from eightcohort studies of BFHI (135,983 women) also demonstrates improved rates ofbreastfeeding initiation (low SOE). Low SOE (k=4 studies; 1,532 women) supportsthe conclusion that health care education or training of staff alone (withoutadditional breastfeeding support services) does not improve breastfeedinginitiation rates. Women, Infants and Children (WIC, a Federal supplementalnutrition program) interventions that focus on peer support are effective inimproving rates of breastfeeding initiation and duration (low SOE). We foundlimited evidence for other (community-based) interventions and no comparativestudies on workplace or school-based interventions or harms associated withinterventions. For maternal health outcomes, low SOE supports the conclusion thatever breastfeeding or breastfeeding for longer durations may be associated withlower rates of breast cancer, epithelial ovarian cancer, hypertension, and type 2diabetes, but not fractures. Because of heterogeneity and inconsistent results,we found insufficient evidence on whether breastfeeding is associated withpostpartum depression, cardiovascular disease, or postpartum weight change.CONCLUSIONS: The body of evidence for breastfeeding programs and policies wasdiverse in terms of interventions and settings. Current evidence supports thebenefit of BFHI for improving rates of breastfeeding initiation and duration;however, evidence from one large RCT (PROBIT) has limited applicability, andobservational studies do not clearly establish the magnitude of benefit. Forwomen enrolled in WIC, low SOE supports peer-support interventions for improvingbreastfeeding outcomes. The identified associations between breastfeeding andimproved maternal health outcomes are supported by evidence from observationalstudies, which cannot determine cause-and-effect relationships.
