Conflict of interest statement: None.
Hosp Pharm. 2018 Oct;53(5):296-302. doi: 10.1177/0018578717749926. Epub 2018 Jan10.
Pharmacy Operationalization of the Intralesional Oncolytic ImmunotherapyTalimogene Laherparepvec.
McBride A(1), Valgus J(2), Parsad S(3), Sommermann EM(4), Nunan R(5).
Author information:(1)The University of Arizona Cancer Center, Tucson, USA.(2)University of North Carolina Medical Center, Chapel Hill, USA.(3)University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(4)Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.(5)Mary Crowley Cancer Research Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
Objective: Oncolytic immunotherapy involves the use of viruses to target anddestroy cancer cells and to induce immune responses for an enhanced antitumoreffect. Talimogene laherparepvec, a genetically modified herpes simplex virustype 1 (HSV-1) that selectively replicates in tumors to induce lytic cell death,tumor antigen release, and the local production of granulocyte-macrophagecolony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), has been approved for the treatment of adefined population of patients with metastatic melanoma. Talimogene laherparepvecis administered as a series of intralesional injections, and specific proceduresare implemented to minimize the risk of viral exposure. Because talimogenelaherparepvec represents a novel therapeutic modality, its preparation,administration, and handling requirements differ from current therapies;pharmacists have an important role in developing new procedures to incorporate itinto clinical practice. Methods: In this review, pharmacists with experiencedispensing talimogene laherparepvec, in the clinical trial setting and/or as acommercially available product at US academic institutions, synthesized theirpersonal experiences through group discussions to provide insights on theordering, receipt, storage, preparation, administration, and handling oftalimogene laherparepvec. Results: Suggestions for patient education andpractical guidance to assist hospital pharmacists and decision makers withimplementing talimogene laherparepvec at their institutions are provided.Conclusion: These insights may further inform the development of policies orprocedures to incorporate talimogene laherparepvec into clinical settings andimprove patient outcomes.
