Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: Theauthor(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect tothe research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: JV, RN, and SP havereceived consulting fees from Amgen Inc. EMS is an employee of Amgen Inc. AM hasnothing to disclose.
Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2018 Sep 12. doi: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-18-0123. [Epubahead of print]
Effects of Supplemental Calcium and Vitamin D on Expression of Toll-LikeReceptors and Phospho-IKKα/β in the Normal Rectal Mucosa of Colorectal AdenomaPatients.
Hodge R(1), Mandle HB(1), Ray S(1), Tandon S(1), Peterson M(1), Henry A(1), JahanFA(1), Bostick RM(1)(2), Baron JA(3)(4)(5), Barry EL(3), Yacoub R(1), RutherfordRE(6), Seabrook ME(7), Fedirko V(8)(2).
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University,Atlanta, Georgia.(2)Winship Cancer Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.(3)Department of Epidemiology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon,New Hampshire.(4)Department of Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, NewHampshire.(5)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.(6)Division of Digestive Diseases, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine,Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.(7)Consultants in Gastroenterology, West Columbia, South Carolina.(8)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University,Atlanta, Georgia. vfedirk@emory.edu.
Chronic inflammation in the colorectum, a significant contributor to colorectalcarcinogenesis, can be triggered by the activation of proinflammatory signalingpathways such as those initiated by Toll-like receptors (TLR) and nuclear factorκB (NF-κB). Although experimental evidence supports calcium and vitamin Dpotentially modifying these proinflammatory pathways in the colorectum, humandata in these regards are scarce. We investigated supplemental calcium (1,200 mgdaily) and/or vitamin D3 (1,000 IU daily) effects on inflammatory signalingpathway-related biomarkers in a subset of 105 participants from a colorectaladenoma recurrence chemoprevention clinical trial. We assessed expression of TLR4and TLR5, which recognize the bacterial components lipopolysaccharides andflagellin, respectively, and phospho-IKKα/β (pIKKα/β), a biomarker ofinflammation, in the normal-appearing rectal crypt epithelium and stroma usingstandardized, automated immunohistochemistry and quantitative image analysis.Following 1 year of treatment, TLR4, TLR5, and pIKKα/β expression in the rectalmucosa did not statistically significantly change with vitamin D or calciumsupplementation, taken alone or in combination. Several baseline participantcharacteristics, including body mass index, history of sessile serrated adenomas,high red/processed meat intake, and high levels of rectal epithelial cellproliferation (as measured by MIB-1/Ki-67), were associated with higher baselineexpression of TLRs or pIKKα/β. Our findings suggest that vitamin D and calciummay have no substantial effect on the investigated biomarkers. However, severalmodifiable lifestyle factors may be associated with TLRs and pIKKα/β expressionin the normal rectal mucosa, supporting their future investigation as potentiallytreatable, preneoplastic risk factors for colorectal neoplasms. Cancer Prev Res;11(11); 1-10. ©2018 AACR.
©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.
